(0:00 - 0:18)
Hey, hey, what's up, my friend? So in today's video, I'll share with you three swing trading strategies that you can use to profit in the financial markets. Doesn't matter whether you're trading forex, stocks, or whatever, right? These strategies can be applied the same. So are you ready? Then let's begin.

(0:19 - 1:07)
Okay, now before I begin, right, I want to explain to you what is swing trading because some of you are wondering, hey, what is swing trading, right? So let me explain to you quickly. So swing trading, the idea is just to capture one swing in the market. So for example, let's say the market is in a range, okay? So over here, you can see that there are swings in this range. 

This is a swing, right? This is a swing. This is a swing. This is another swing, and this is another swing, right? So likewise, in a trend, right, you would see swings in a trend as well. 

So this is, let's say, an uptrend, right? This is one swing. This is another swing, another swing, another swing, and another swing. You get my point, right? So swing trader, right? Basically, right, what you're trying to accomplish is to capture just one swing in the market.

(1:07 - 1:17)
That's it, one swing. So here's an example. So for example, this market is in a range, and let's say, you know, you are a swing trader and you buy support, right? You buy over here at this area of support.

(1:18 - 1:38)
So where will you exit your trade? Well, as a swing trader, you typically exit your trade before the opposing pressure comes in, right? Let me repeat that once again. As a swing trader, you usually exit your trade before the opposing pressure comes in. So if you are long, right, where is the opposing pressure? The opposing pressure is traders who are looking to sell.

(1:39 - 2:16)
So where will traders be looking to sell, right? If you look at this, chances are traders will be looking to sell at this level, right? This resistance or swing high, right? So you want to exit your long trades before this opposing pressure kicks in. So this means that you go long near the lows and you try to capture this one swing, right? Exiting your trade before this area of resistance, okay? And likewise, if you are short the markets at this resistance, right? You want to exit your trades before this area of support, okay? So this is the core idea behind swing trading. And moving on, I want to share with you three swing trading strategies that you can use to profit in the markets.

(2:16 - 3:15)
The first one is what I call stuck in a box where the price is pretty much stuck in a range, stuck in a box, right? Similar to what you've seen earlier. So this, the core idea here is that the market is in a range, right? You want to buy low and sell high. So how you go about doing it is to let the price come into an area of value, an area of support, okay? And let the price reject the lower prices. 

So this, as you can see, right, is rejecting lower prices over here, right? The market, at one point in time, it was trading lower and lower and lower, and then suddenly the buyers step in and push price all the way up higher, and finally closing near the highs over here. So this, right, is a swing trading setup for you to actually go along. So when this happens, when you see a price rejection of the lows of support, okay, you can look to get long, right, on a next candle, right? And look to set your stop loss, right? Ideally a distance away from this low, right? Because you don't want to set it at the precise low because it's very common for the price to just take out the previous low, like this one over here, take out this low, and this candle over here, take out this low over here.

(3:16 - 3:35)
So you don't want to set it just below it because there's a good chance that you might get stopped up before the price reverses in your favor. So what I'll suggest is that, you know, give it some distance, right, some buffer, set it somewhere around here, right, somewhere about here, and you can enter the next candles open somewhere here. So now, your goal as a swing trader is to capture one swing.

(3:35 - 4:00)
So now the question is, where is the opposing pressure likely to come in, right? And if you ask me, right, chances are it would come in somewhere about here, right, somewhere about here. So if you look left, right, there is some resistance over here. So you want to take your profit somewhere about here, right? And as you can see in this example, clearly this one, the market didn't reach far enough, right, before it reversed back into this area of support, and then finally the second attempt, it did hit your target profit.

(4:00 - 4:23)
So depending how you manage your trade, this could be a break-even trade, a small winner or even a loser, right? So I'm not going too much detail into trade management, because that would be a video for another time, but I just want to share with you the core concepts of swing trading. So the other one is what I call catch the wave. So this is used, right, when the market is in an uptrend, right? When the market is trending, you're trying to, you know, time your entry and capture just one swing in an uptrend.

(4:24 - 4:44)
And one thing to point out, right, is that in an uptrend, okay, there are multiple swings. As a swing trader, if you ask me, I will say, your best chance of, you know, riding a swing is to capture the swings, right, that is in line with the trend. So you can see that the moves that are in line with the trend are usually stronger, right, stronger, right? This portion is stronger than this counter-trend move.

(4:45 - 4:58)
This portion over here is stronger than this counter-trend move. So you usually want to trade with the move, right, that is in line with the trend. I call this the trending move, okay? And how we can go about doing it is, again, over here, right? I've just pulled out the 50-period moving average.

(4:59 - 5:13)
In an uptrend, right, if it's in a healthy uptrend, right, the market tends to, you know, bounce off the 50MA. So it's being shown on this blue line over here. So what you can do is that, wait for the price to come to an area of value which is this 50-period moving average.

(5:13 - 5:22)
And again, look for a form of a price rejection. It can be a hammer, it can be a, what do you call, a bullish engulfing pattern and etc. So in this case, you've got somewhat of a bullish engulfing pattern.

(5:23 - 5:49)
Notice the price came in, right? At one point in time, it was near the 50-period moving average and then the buyer stepped in and finally, you know, pushed the price higher, closing near the highs, right? As a trader, you can look to get long. Again, stop loss, right? Give you some buffer below this low somewhere here, entry over here, right? And then you can look to exit your trade, right, just before this swing high. Again, we mentioned exiting your trade, right, before the opposing pressure kicks in.

(5:49 - 6:06)
And this over here, if you ask me, right, is where potential sellers could come in. So you want to exit your trades just before this swing high, ideally somewhere about here, okay? So you can see that you have, in essence, what you've done in this, right, is just to capture one swing in this uptrend. Okay, so this is the second strategy, catch the wave.

(6:06 - 6:33)
And the final strategy I want to share with you is a little bit more, obviously it's more aggressive, right? But still, it offers a favorable risk to reward on your trade if you execute it correctly. So it's what I call, fade the move, right? So this is actually a counter-trend trade. Okay, so because, right, when the market is trending, right, and it has actually travelled quite a distance, right, towards the swing high, towards resistance, there is actually opportunity for you to actually take a counter-trend trade.

(6:33 - 6:59)
But I'll share with you a little bit on how to manage this type of trade because if you're not careful, the price can actually reverse quickly against you. So in this case, right, you can see that this market is in an uptrend, right? And price, right, actually came and retested back towards this swing high over here. Notice it travelled quite a bit, right, from this swing low all the way up into this swing high and then next candle, bam, got rejected, forms a bearish engulfing pattern and the market collapsed in the reverse lower.

(6:59 - 7:25)
But prior to this, right, if you think about this, right, at one point in time, the market, as it was breaking out higher, there are traders who are actually going, or rather went long on the break of this highs, because they are thinking, hey, the market is breaking out, right, man, I better go long, the train is up, I want to long the break out, I want to catch the next move up higher, I don't want to miss the train. And then what happened? Well, the next candle, it did a 180 degree reversal towards the downside. That's why you got this bearish engulfing pattern.

(7:26 - 7:55)
And now this group of traders who went long earlier, who went long on the break out, are now trapped, right, because the markets, they thought it's going up higher and then it reversed against them suddenly, so they are now trapped. So this group of traders, right, where will they put their stop-loss? Chances are their stop-loss is possibly, right, somewhere here, here, or even below this swing low over here. So what happens is that as the price hits lower, you would actually hit this cluster of stop-loss, right, from the break-out traders, and that would fuel further selling pressure.

(7:55 - 8:14)
So that's the logic behind this trick. So what you can do is that, when you see this pattern where the price did a false break, right, you can go short on the next candles, open, again, stop-loss, right, you can set it a distance away from this highs, right, in anticipation that you can capture one swing down back towards this swing low over here. Just a quick one swing down.

(8:14 - 8:26)
So now as I mentioned, right, this trade is a counter-trend trade. It's slightly more aggressive than the earlier ones because you are trading against the trend. So for trade management, what I suggest in this instance is that you don't want to hold your trades for too long.

(8:26 - 8:48)
So what usually I do, right, is that if the price breaks and close, let's say for example, let's say this candle, we are currently looking at this candle, if it breaks and close above this candle's high, okay, I will exit the trade because I know I'm trading against the trend. I don't want to overstay my, I don't know, you know, stay too long. If it shows signs of reversal, chances are, right, the pullback might end and the trend would continue itself.

(8:48 - 8:58)
So this is where my trade management comes in. It will be more, I would say, conservative, right, where my trailing stop loss, right, will be tighter in this case. All right, so this is what I call fade the move.

(8:59 - 9:13)
So for the earlier trades, right, let's say like catch the wave in this case, right. So in this instance, right, you can be a little bit more, I would say, giving your trade more room to breathe because after all, you're trading with the trend. So there are a few ways you can go about it.

(9:13 - 9:29)
Number one, you can use this market structure. As long as the lower high remains intact, you can hold on to the trade till the price hits your target profit. Or you can also, you know, use a trailing stop loss approach, right, to trail your stop loss, right, until the price hits your target profit because after all, this one, you're trading with the trend.

(9:29 - 9:45)
Whereas this one over here, the fade the move, right, you don't want to overwhelm your state. You're trading against the trend, you want to get out, right, when the market is starting to show signs of a strain, right, in the direction of the trend, okay. So with that said, right, let's do a super quick recap, right, what you have learned today.

(9:45 - 10:05)
Number one, we talk about the swing trading strategy, which is called stuck in a box where the market is in range, you want to buy low, and you want to sell high. We talk about catch the wave, right, for trending market on how to capture a swing. Ideally, you want to long at the area of value, like the moving average, for example, I shared with you earlier, it's the 50-period moving average, and then exiting your trades just prior to the swing high.

(10:06 - 10:37)
And finally, this is a counter-trend trade, fade the move where the market makes a strong rally into a key resistance or a key level and then got rejected, right. You can take a short position, right, and capture a swing down lower and see whether you can get a swing down lower thereby profiting from traders who are actually long from the breakout. Okay, so with that said, right, I have, you know, if you want to learn more about what I do, you can go down to my website over here, tradingwithrainer.com, right, tradingwithrainer.com, right, Rainer is mining here, you should know that, right.

(10:37 - 11:01)
And you can actually scroll down a little bit and actually have a couple of trading guides over here, right. So one is called the ultimate guide to trend following where I'll share with you practical trading techniques, right, on how to write big trends and market, and then the ultimate guide to price action trading on how to better time your entries and exits, right. These two guides, completely free, right, just click the blue button, right, and I'll send it to your email address for free.

(11:01 - 11:16)
Okay, so with that said, I have come to the end of this video, I hope you find it insightful. If you did, right, could you please, you know, hit the like button, right, and subscribe to my YouTube channel. And if there's anything, right, that you want to ask me or any questions, leave it in the comment section below, and I'll do my best to help.

(11:16 - 11:18)
With that said, right, I'll talk to you soon.