(0:00 - 2:39)
What's going on guys? We're here today in Connecticut and we're going to be hanging out at the ticker talker office checking out what Stephen Kalasian is doing every day from 8 a.m till 4 p.m when the market is open, how it works, what he's doing, what he's looking for, and everything that's going on inside of Steve's room. You're going to see it here in a minute. You've seen it before but now we're going to get a more in-depth look at kind of what goes on, what Steve's looking for, so come along. 

I'm taking you inside where most people will never be able to go, so feel lucky. Stay tuned. Come on. 

What's going on? Good man. So Steve, here he is, the man, the myth, the legend. All right, break down what you're doing right now. 

It's eight o'clock in the morning. What are you looking for? What are you kind of focused on? So I'm just getting my eyes, you know, zeroed in on what's going on. I just walked in about 10 minutes ago to start getting my desk organized, and then I'm just starting my live room at eight, checking my economic calendar because I don't like to trade into any economic news. 

So if there's any 8.30 numbers coming out or 10 o'clock, I want to get ready and prepared for it. But just right now, I'm just going left to right, just, you know, checking out the futures contracts, where the overall markets are, looking at some of the 4Xs, the pound, the euro, the dollar, yen, and looking at the index futures. I'm trying to buy the S&P futures because the future is eight o'clock in the morning. 

Equity markets start at 9.30, but I got a lot of guys who trade futures when I come in at eight o'clock in the morning. So whether it's the index futures, the crude oil, currency markets, I have a GDP number coming in at 8.30. So the economy looks like it's strong. It could be a sign that the Federal Reserve is going to start raising interest rates again. 

And if it's a weak GDP, well, it could be taking two ways that the economy is starting to falter. And that may be that it would be offset by the Federal Reserve not looking to raise interest rates again. So there's a combination. 

It's a whole way of, you have to interpret it, but hey, S&P sell 90 or better here, and then not cancel the balance. So, you know, all day long, we're in here. But right now, after this trade, I probably won't do much, you know, because of the fact that, you know, you don't want to have a position going into a big, big number like GDP at 8.30. All my life, I've never traded into an economic news. 

I mean, I have what, 30 minutes, 25 minutes before, okay, S&P is 9.25. So I probably, you know, I wouldn't be doing much here. So I'm going to get on in 10 seconds. And people who are normally on a little bit before would have probably caught that, you know, one little trade, scalp trade on the S&Ps.

(2:39 - 6:05)
If you look at all the four ETFs reversed yesterday, and continued to be in a solid uptrend. What are we looking at? You got a lot of screens. A lot of people are like, Oh, we need all the screens for tell us kind of what we're looking at on the screens and kind of break it down. 

I think I was trying to explain to people how you know, every screen is a either a different instrument or different equity, correct future. So because I have so many screens up is not because of any ego or anything like that. It's because of the way I've been doing this for well over 25, 30 years. 

And that's because of the fact that I want to be able, even though technology, which I have behind me, I put my three assistants, I have my algos running behind me, and they're blurting out stuff for me. Yeah, right. But it's important that, you know, when I am more of a visual guy, too, right. 

So when I'm able to have all my different instruments that I look at that I trade that my, my customers and my traders look at, right, it's good that, you know, I'm in a rhythm with it. So instead of just having the algo, just say, okay, you know, buy S&Ps, then I want to watch the pattern. And then I can trade in that pattern all that long. 

Number one thing is you want to be on the right side of the market, right? So I'm able to identify the trend, whether it's a negative or a positive trend. And then I, like yesterday, we caught the whole reversal up. You're also looking for kind of like correlations to spy. 

How does that work? Like, let's say I'm trading the E-minis, right? What am I looking for in the spy? So when I trade, you can trade the futures contracts before. My research has shown me you can trade during the Tokyo and the European session outright using my technology. And then you can trade up until 9.30. So what happens is, is that once the bell rings at 9.30, and all the markets open, equities, ETFs. 

So yesterday, for example, if you look here, I caught the buy reversal using my proprietary algorithm on the 15 minute timeframe. I caught the buy reversal here at 12.45 on the spiders, right? But if you look back, and I have to scroll back here, you can see that when I got the buy signal on the S&P futures, right here at I think it was about 15 minutes before 11.45, like an hour earlier. So at 11.45, I caught the buy signal. 

And I said to everybody that I thought the lows were in for the day. And then at 12.45, when the spiders, which trade like a stock correlated with the with the continuous contract, now they both lined. So now I knew the lows were definitely in and I was trade trading from the from the long side on the S&Ps or the equity markets as a whole. 

I've done so much research on this that I wrote this and the way they line up very powerful and you should be going in in that direction. So that's why I'm able to see and I teach this to people who are in my live room, who use my software as well. High alpha generated trading ideas in and out, you know, market direction, seeing things that a lot of people you know, I feel can't see and this is what I do to try to help them. 

How long are you typically in a trade? Anywhere from one to six bars, which means anywhere from one minute to 30 minutes on a trade, I watch, I just absorb. And then I you know, I'll wait. Sometimes I've seen, you know, big drops and then huge reversals up. 

And so I just want to be able to let the dust settle a little bit. Usually the second move is the right direction for my years of experience. 10 year bond still bullish here on the 15 and 30 minute time frames.

(6:06 - 10:36)
Alright, markets about to open. What are you looking at right now? What's kind of the game plan? The indexes are down, S&P futures are down six and Nasdaq futures are down 23. That's the market right there. 

Overall, I have buys of all my ETFs, the spiders, the Russell, the Q's and the diamonds. So right now we're still in buy mode, even though the market's going to open up a little weaker. So right now I'm just going to be patiently waiting here and see which way the market's going to dictate eventually. 

How quickly do you normally try to get in once the market opens? Today it's there's not no umph to it, but normally sometimes like if you see like a, you know, an 1820 handle move up, I try to fade it and short it right on the opening and then try to look for a quick scalp. You know, how does the market open affect the futures? Obviously the futures are already trading, but they're kind of trading on the idea that the future price. Right. 

So right now you're just going to wait to see where a lot of the underlying stocks are going to open, like the Amazons, you know, the names that are the apples that are going to like right now, Apple, I'm in buy mode, right? The Nasdaq futures is down 22. Okay. Here we go. 

All right. So, um, all right. Apple's still in buy mode here. 

Tesla. Wow. New highs here in Tesla. 

All right. We have sales in, uh, Intel takes out the 5296 level. We're going to Intel. 

You take out the 5296 and Intel. You're going to get a sell signal here. All right. 

10 year bond. Look to cover here. Four and a half shouldn't have been able to sell all fives. 

No way you were selling all five and a half. Use a, use a five stop if it starts going, but you should be complete here. Half bid's going to get hit out here at a half. 

So you should be filled. Let me give you some key numbers to watch here. Spiders need to hold above the 278.43. Russell 156.73. Q's 172.86 and the diamonds 259.27. These are all really big numbers here. 

If any of them get, start taking out, we're going to see a reversal to the downside right now. The Dow's on the Dow's right up a dollar here. It's a 10 Oh three. 

Now we probably, how many trades we do today? About 24, 20, about 20 trades. We probably going to be in the mid 60, 70 range right now. We have buys on the S and P's the spiders, the Russell just reversed negative. 

So one of the four ETFs are now in sell mode here. So I just feel like the market's really heavy and this pattern on the bigger timeframe has got to be complete. So I'm still looking for another, you know, 20 to 30 handle push down the next couple of days to complete that before we get another push back up on the bigger timeframe. 

So normally when I'm trading, I'm looking for opportunities in terms of a stock being overextended the upside to go short or un, you know, oversold to the downside to get down to support area to get long. Kind of how you, what are you kind of looking at? I mean, other than looking just at the, well, I use my own proprietary algorithms. Um, so I really never look at anything, you know, I can show you examples, my 36 years of an overbought condition and the market still rally 2000 points. 

So the way I designed everything that took me eight years of my life, I'm able to identify the trends and reversals and the patterns that set up. And I have, you know, using my overbought oversold oscillators. So I'm, I'm pretty in tune to like how I use them and use them with other indicators so I can pick up divergence patterns and oversold conditions that I know how to use. 

And I teach that all day long. Is there a reason you have a preference between the tick charts and bar charts? I'm just so used to, you know, the, the bar data like that I've been looking at. And to me, it's the only way to look at it. 

Um, I get into a rhythm with it more, a flow. So it's what my eyes are pretty much trained on a daily basis. Can you give us a quick little explanation of how a bar chart works? Yeah. 

So basically looking at the traded fund spiders SPY, uh, it's just data coming in and just the prices, you know, within that, I'm looking at a five minute timeframe. So the data is just coming in and out. And then basically the way I have my, uh, charting applications set up with using my own proprietary algorithms, I'm able to, you know, identify the patterns and the price action.

(10:36 - 11:17)
So obviously on that bar, the little, you have the, on the left side of the open. Yes. The open of that bar. 

Now you can see the yellow digits right here to the right because my right eye is always currently on that bar. So when I trade, I'm always looking at the current bar and all these numbers to the right house, very meaningful data for me. So right now you can see, uh, it's just dropping here. 

Um, you can see that the, the high on this bar and I click on it and I can see the high is 278.97 and it just got down to the, uh, 86 levels. So from high to low, it just dropped 11 cents. So I'm able to identify much better visually what works for me.

(11:17 - 16:13)
It may not work for someone else, but most of the people that I teach and who are training are using at bar data. Okay. Cause I think for me, when I'm looking at candles, I'm looking, I see the red and the green on the candles in terms of, you know, obviously if it's selling off, I'm seeing that and taking that into account. 

Yeah. You're not really. Yeah. 

I, you know, I'm using my own way of my methodologies and how I'm, I'm trading using my own proprietary algorithms. And so I never really used candles. I looked at them once on maybe some 30 plus years ago, but I, I just not something that I look at. 

Yeah. You're not really looking at volume. No. 

There's no volume. Well, I mean, the only time I look at volume is just like when it's super slow, I just wanted to see how many contracts are trading on the S and P's. And normally they'll do 20,000 contracts on a five minute bar. 

And you know, right now we're, uh, I had a, you know, pretty, pretty much in, in, in tune for that number on this five. I don't look at volume when I trade. Is that what you're asking? Yeah. 

Cause I mean, no, some people are like, Oh, if I see, you know, I'm not going to get volume. No, I'm not going to do that. I only time I, I'm not going to trade a symbol that has no volume where it's like, maybe it does 500 shares in an hour. 

I don't illiquid. I don't go anywhere near illiquid, uh, symbols. So we're at 27 trades right now. 

It's almost lunchtime. Well, let's say 11 o'clock. It's almost 11 o'clock. 

We're on pace through 60 to 75 today. On a really just when the market's just rallying, rallying, rallying. Like what's the, what do you think the most trades that are made like in one day in the kind of like in the ticker talker room and stuff? Probably North of a hundred. 

Yeah. Yeah. Easy. 

And then obviously you see what slow day when the market's kind of just flat, it just, yeah, you know, anywhere between 40 and 70. So obviously that comes into play. Like you said, you know, I'm waiting for the setups being patient. 

You got to be patient. If the market isn't showing you the entries, you're not buying. No, no way. 

Um, I'm not just, I'm just not gonna have people commit capital just for the sake of committing capital. Well, I think a lot of people sit there on the computer all day and they're like, they feel like if they're not in a trade, they're not doing, they're not, you know what I mean? Like they're not working. Yeah. 

I get that all the time. That's a great point. A lot of people say like, you know, what do I do next? I'm like, dude, you got to chill out. 

You know, you just got to wait until the pattern's set up. Let the market, you want to be right or you want to just gamble? I'm not the gambler. I'm waiting. 

I want the odds on my side. Do you ever notice, obviously like in the middle of the day, it kind of just slows down because you get those, you know, you get the bigger moves in the morning, kind of, I mean, trends kind of develop and start moving through the middle of the day. And then like yesterday, the market right at the end of the day kind of rallied into closing. 

You know, the markets in my point of view doesn't have a predictive pattern like that. I mean, there are days when it's like you look up, it's three o'clock and you're not stopped. Yeah. 

The last week or two, I would say that it's been pretty much just quiet. I could never, you know, there were periods of time when you couldn't even do this, this interview like this right now. Every day is a different day. 

So I don't come into the day knowing, okay, from 11 to 1130, I'm just going to, you know, relax. You know, it's not like take a nap, go to lunch. We eat at our desks. 

This is military. In terms of, you know, as like somebody from the outside to see like, oh, the market crashed. How'd you make money today? But there's opportunities in a bear market. 

There's opportunities in a bull market. Do you have a preference really? I mean, I think the markets, you make more money when the markets go down. I'm just saying like, in general, like, would you, if we go into a bear market for the next two years? No, because you could trade like instruments like the TZAs, which are the inverse of betting the market going up, the SDAL, the QIDs. 

So there's other instruments to trade from the long side, you know, to capture that. And, you know, you can always short, you know. So if you don't feel comfortable shorting, but you want to buy instruments like the TZAs or the QIDs or the SDALs, which are the inverse of the market going up. 

So, you know, there's always opportunities. So there's other vehicles to trade. It's got to expand your horizon. 

Yeah. That's one thing I've learned is obviously volatility is pretty much what you need in terms of, I'm not so much worried about if it's green or red, I'm more worried about if I'm getting action up or down. Right. 

But even like today, for example, it's pretty slow at, what, 1046 in the morning. But there's been opportunities here across the board. I'm not going to deny that. 

Some good opportunities in the futures contracts, gold dropped from the time we got the sell signal, I think almost six, seven dollars on crude oils all over the place. So there's opportunities. It's just, you know, having the technology and the asset classes that you want to trade. 

And you know what? Guess what? If there's nothing there, there's nothing there. Preservation of capital. You just want to wait.

(16:13 - 17:43)
Because truth, I've been around a long time. Things happen. Yeah. 

So let's say you get a day where it's just like the end of the world. We're down 700, 800 points. Are you just the whole time just banging, banging, banging? Yeah. 

All day. You know, it depends on the type of trader. I have guys who are with me on every trade because some guys are like they just wait. 

You know, it depends. It really does. You know, but I'm here to do one job. 

I give it up a million percent every single day. So I'm not thinking I'm just seeing what I'm seeing and letting the technology tell me and and the direction that I'm able to see using my proprietary software. I'm just calling out what I'm seeing. 

I can't. There's so many DNAs involved. I don't know who's trading what with me or what. 

Like today, you know, we were short the 10 year bond all the way down. So there may be some guys who don't trade a 10 year bond, but there are guys that do. So other guys who are S&P traders or guys who are trading oil or Forex or waiting for moves like in Netflix, when I said Netflix, take out the 360 one and a half level and then it drops, you know, almost more than a dollar and a half. 

So everybody's it's up to the trader overall to get the comfort level of what they want to trade. So like with your with your algorithm, is it always the more and more data you're gathering, the more and more time you're using it, is it getting better and better over time? I've never tweaked it since the time I started running it forward. So it is what it is.

(17:43 - 18:12)
And I always I believe in forward testing. So I always just ran it. And I've been I never once touched it since I had it implemented on my software. 

So on my chart. So I just I believe in it. I stuck with it. 

I've taught many, many people how to use it. And this is what I use every single day. And I teach people how to use it every single day. 

To people go on to your talker and see past performance of kind of. Yeah. Under my verified because I use this to do my verified trades.

(18:12 - 18:24)
Yeah. When I there's a section I'm a leader on the platform. So I'll be using that my technology there to to, you know, trade and people can actually see my real life, my performance.

(18:24 - 19:02)
OK. Forty five trades, two o'clock. What do you think? How many more trades a day? Two more hours. 

Mark, let's say 45. We'll push it to about 60, 65. All right. 

Yeah. Have you. That's what's been averaging with these slow days when the ball when there's no ball. 

I mean, look, the Nasdaq futures are less down less than the dollar. The Dow's down 30. Is there one day that really stands out like you remember, like back when you're trading, like one day that you really remember, like that was historical in a sense? Well, that Monday. 

Was it October 19th? Was it October 19th? Yeah. October 9th. Black Monday.

(19:03 - 19:08)
I never forget that. Shortest goal 1610. Yeah, I think that day was it.

(19:10 - 21:25)
The Friday before was pretty wild because I had to come in that Saturday morning. But you're talking volatility that, you know, was just back then, you know, 500 points on the Dow. I mean, that's like earth shattering. 

You know, now we see the Dow move a thousand points a couple of times in the last year. You just like, OK, well, it's at twenty six thousand. It drops a thousand. 

It's not not so bad. Right. Yeah. 

But, you know, I've seen you know, when you're in the game, as long as I've been for 36 years, you get to see a lot of different things. And there's nothing that, you know, I probably haven't seen the most veterans, you know, who've been in the game as long as I have. I mean, seeing the market go from from a thousand to twenty six, almost twenty seven thousand, twenty seven thousand. 

I mean, now when you see a big dip, it's just like nothing now. I mean, you know, it's like anything else. You don't get psyched out by it. 

It's not you're in a mindset where you're just prepared to see anything at any given time. And that's why, like I tell people all the time, don't overthink things, you know. So if you're going to trade futures, if you're going to trade stocks or if you're going to trade foreign exchange, don't overthink. 

Just look at the just learn, look at the pattern, identify and try to be number one on the right side of the market and then wait patiently for the patterns to set up. And that's what I do all day long. Like right now, there's nothing going on and I'm just waiting for patterns and trends to develop or reversal here in the market. 

So right now, everything is bullish right across the board here. So I'm not I'm not looking at anything really much here. Hey, let's take an aggressive long here. 

S&Ps go 85, go 84, go 84, 89. Use 83 and 83 stop. Hey S&Ps, I'm taking an aggressive long here. 

The three and a five minute time frames are reversing here on the diamonds and the S&P futures and the NASDAQ. But any push up, I'm buying this off the 15 minute time frames. Let's look to buy these S&Ps for maybe a maybe a one to two, two and a half handle scout.

(21:25 - 21:52)
Alright, so the market just closed. We're going to get a little recap from Steve, kind of what went down today. Overall, you know, where they're at, what's going on, how many trades they ended up at. 

I think earlier, Steve said they're looking for around 60 trades. So let's find out exactly where they ended up at. So Steve, where are we at? What's going on? I know guys, what was the number today? 58. 

I could have done a little couple more. You could have got two more. And I think you had two more just kind of popping.

(21:53 - 22:13)
Overall, I mean, do you feel a little bit of pressure? I mean, 36 years trading. I mean, kind of like you got to perform, you know, like. The only pressure I really get is when I leave here. 

Yeah. And this is like my environment. I feel really contained in here. 

And I, you know, I know what I'm doing. So it's like peace of mind here. I think they get a little bit of pressure.

(22:14 - 22:45)
The assistance back there, a little bit of pressure in there. A couple moments, you know. They know me. 

They know what's going on. But yeah, really cool to see kind of what went down today, seeing the overall. I think it's interesting definitely to see how you're trading, you know, Forex, the gold, the futures, the oil. 

It's all in your head. It's hard to explain, but I mean, you're seeing it and it's happening and you're not. It's like that. 

It's not even it's like instinct where you're just like you see you see crude oil and you're like, oh, right here, let's get in short. And then it's bam. And you're seeing that stuff where most people would have to pull up a whole chart and really take a lot of time to kind of figure that out.

(22:45 - 24:16)
So that's obviously part of your algorithm. And I spent eight years building this. And so plus I do this every single day. 

But more importantly, the people who come into my live room get this technology. So they see exactly they get that good as time goes on. They're if they're committed to it and they want to learn and they want to see it and they want to really do well for themselves. 

So they're they're they have the same technology I have. Yeah. So in the actual chat in the live room, they can see the same chart you're looking at, the same indicators, they can use all that, even if they can keep an eye on it and kind of learn the same way that you teach them, you know, keep an eye out for this indicator, this setup. 

Yeah. And you can you're basically seeing what you're seeing. Hundred percent. 

And when there's a lull, I'll go in and I'll explain it. I'll you know, I'll just bring up the chart and I'll start explaining why I did what I did. And I start pounding it into them. 

And remember, I told you patterns repeat themselves over and over again, whether it's a pattern based upon the way my algorithms line up or a pattern based upon price action. So that to me is, you know, the way I wrote this, I you know, I'm pretty much able to see that happening. And when I do get a reversal or buy and or sell signal, then I know how to trade it. 

But again, it's all visual. So I want to be able to be on the right side of the market. I'm not guessing. 

And I am very disciplined. I have my stops in place and there's no averaging down preservation of capital. You've got to have all this, you know, in the back of your head.

(24:16 - 24:23)
So. So what you're telling me here is that you're not gambling. Well, anytime you put money at risk, it's always a fear.

(24:23 - 24:26)
You're not just going in. It's not 50 50. You're not going in there.

(24:26 - 24:50)
No, I mean, the bottom line is, you know, I'm not in this to be right. 50 percent, 60 percent, 70 percent, 80 percent of the time. I want to be right. 

My consistency is everything for me. So I want to be right. Ninety percent, 90 plus. 

And that's what I try to get people to have that mindset, you know. So that's what my goal is here every single day. I mean, I think the biggest thing when people ask about day trading, oh, it's just gambling.

(24:50 - 26:44)
I think at the end of the day, what we're really doing here is we're managing risk. You see an opportunity where you see a small amount of risk, but a reward and you do that over and over and over and you're consistent. You can make money trading as long as you have a predefined, you know, risk for every trade. 

And you understand that, like you said, you can't just can't just start buying the E-minis and just keep buying, buying, buying until it goes. Well, I'll be honest with you. I mean, I've been trading for 36 years and since I've had this and I wrote this some 10, 15 years ago, you know, I was just trading based upon the depth of the markets. 

You know, I was trading, you know, anywhere from one to four or five million shares any given day. And, you know, back then there was depth of the markets where anytime I saw a buy or sell program come in, I would just lift in offers and then, you know, hopefully that the buy or sell, the buy program in that example would continue and I would be getting out into it, you know. But when the era of decimalization came around, you know, I would, I tell you right now, if I didn't have what I have here, I would never be able to call the market. 

I mean, I spent eight years of my life building this and this is what I do. During the day when there's lulls, I constantly teaching, I'm constantly educating people. I just want people to get better, traders get better and better and better. 

Give them the right tools, make them consistent and make, you know, and hopefully that they're on the right side of the market with me in trading. Really cool to see you in action today. Hanging out with you. 

Thanks again. Thank you. For all the knowledge, information. 

We got a lot more videos to come from Steve really soon. If you want to check out more on Steve and what's going on at the Ticker Talker office and everything like that, check out tickertalker.com. There's a link down below. You can hit that link, check it out. 

I think there's, like I said before, there's also a little discount going on right now. You can check that out down below and see what's going on. Free trial. 

You might as well. You might as well check out the free trial, see what's going on and learn a little bit. Worst come to worst, you learn something.

(26:44 - 26:50)
If you don't enjoy it, you can walk away. But I think you're gonna enjoy it. So thanks again, Steve. 

Thanks. Thanks. We got to go. 

We're out of here.