(0:00 - 0:08)
That's right, guys. This video will change your life forever. The easiest way to make money in crypto is to automate your trades.

(0:08 - 0:45)
And in this video, and I will make it a short video this time because I talk a lot, because I have a lot to say, but in this video, I'm going to show you very quickly what you can do right now to get ready for the next bull market, for the next leg up and how you can automate all of your portfolio in just a couple of minutes. Let's go, guys. Am I hyped up? Absolutely. 

I'm hyped up. I just came back from token 2049 and I've met a massive amount of amazing people. I've been able to get MM Crypto on my channel, Austin from Altcoin Daily and Ran from Crypto Banter, but you can watch all of that later because this video is the most important video you will watch in your whole life.

(0:45 - 0:51)
Honestly, like if you don't watch this video until the end, nobody can help you. You will lose money forever. Okay, I'm just kidding.

(0:52 - 1:12)
So this is not financial advice. You can lose all of your money because crypto is risky. Okay. 

That's why I'm doing this channel to give you all the knowledge and strategies and automation knowledge so you can outcompete yourself but also other people who don't know about this stuff. Okay, so having said all of that, smash the freaking like button, subscribe to the channel, hit the bell and let me change your life with this video. Let's be real, guys.

(1:12 - 1:35)
Most people lose money in crypto because they don't know what they're doing, especially because they're trading on smaller time frames, right? They're trading on five minute, ten minute, one hour, four hour, even four hour is a problem and they don't know that on these time frames, they have more enemies than on the higher time frames. You don't even see the enemy. Okay, because it's somewhere on the other side of the computer of the internet.

(1:35 - 1:49)
You don't even see that you're fighting a massive gorilla that is playing with you. However, this gorilla wants to play with you. Okay, you don't see that because if you go into a boxing match, at least you see the enemy in front of you and you see, okay, that's not good.

(1:49 - 2:05)
I'm going to lose this battle. So let's fight something else, right? But if you're fighting in the freaking small time frames, you are getting absolutely massacred. Okay, by the market maker, high-frequency traders, you can't be fast enough because that is just for bots.

(2:06 - 2:17)
Okay, these smaller time frames, that's where they are good, right? Because they're fast and they can run your stops. They can fake you in or they can do whatever they want with you. Okay, so that's the rule number one and I have a video about this.

(2:17 - 2:21)
I will link it up top. You do not trade on freaking below one day. Okay, just don't do it.

(2:22 - 2:31)
Not financial advice. You can do whatever you want. But if you made money on below one day time frame consistently, you don't need me go and watch other videos.

(2:31 - 2:55)
Okay, but most of you will still be here because you are losing money and you do regret your actions in the past now. So with that out of the way, now, let me show you how you can out-compete yourself and 95% of other traders who don't know what they're doing with a very simple method. Let me show you right now and I will keep my promise of making this video shorter than my other videos because I love explaining everything.

(2:55 - 3:00)
That's why you subscribe to this channel. But let's dive directly into the solution. Okay, the solution is this.

(3:01 - 3:12)
Okay, you get a strategy that is good. You automate the strategy and then you stick to the strategy. You don't change your plan every couple of months, right? You only change your plan every bear market.

(3:12 - 3:25)
You place your bets and then you let it happen. Okay, and next time you improve you improve you improve but the chances of you making more money than before are quite high because you chose a good strategy. Because your manual trading doesn't work.

(3:26 - 3:47)
Okay, so let's go through a couple of strategies that you can actually use right now after watching this video. They are all free. Okay, so listen, okay, listen, if you if you didn't make this profit that I'm showing you now on these strategies, then you should consider using the strategies, right? Because these strategies might be better than whatever you've been doing before.

(3:48 - 4:03)
So if that's the case, why don't use the strategies, right? And because you don't have time to click the button all the time, you automate it, right? That's the whole point. Michael automates. By the way, I changed the name of the channel to Michael automates because that's what I do, right? Okay, this is the first strategy.

(4:03 - 4:11)
I want to show you it's called Gaussian Channel Strategy. Some of you might know it already from my other videos. It makes thousand seven hundred percent profit since 2018.

(4:11 - 4:37)
You can see here 2018 until when I record this video with a max drawdown of 38.6%. That means that if you made less money on Bitcoin than thousand seven hundred percent, that's a 17x profit, then you should consider using this strategy. The next strategy is called Breakout Trend Follow Strategy. It made thousand four hundred percent profit a bit less than the other one, but also with a bit less max drawdown.

(4:38 - 4:49)
Well, not a lot less, but still and what I really like is that it has more profitable trades than the other one. Now, you might ask yourself, listen, then I take the other one, right, because it makes more money, but yeah, sure. It makes more money on Bitcoin.

(4:50 - 5:01)
But what if on Solana, this one is better. You have to just click around and play with this, right? And by the way, because I didn't tell you before, this is all on the one day chart. Okay, the one day Bitcoin chart.

(5:01 - 5:06)
In this case, Bitcoin index chart. I will zoom in and show you this and that's where you get these numbers. Okay, cool.

(5:07 - 5:21)
Now, let's look at another strategy and the next strategy is called Halsoot Strategy. Since 2018, it made 423% profit on Bitcoin with a max drawdown of 70%. Now, tell me if that's a good strategy or not.

(5:21 - 5:32)
And you might ask yourself, why am I showing you this stupid strategy? Because it makes less money than the other ones. Well, because it might be better on other assets. Okay, so check this out.

(5:32 - 5:47)
I want to show you this exact same strategy on Ethereum. Now, on Ethereum, you can see it made 15x profit with 62% max drawdown. Yes, it's high, but okay, Ethereum is also quite volatile.

(5:47 - 6:07)
Now, the thing is, if I turn on the Gaussian Channel Strategy, you will see the Gaussian Channel actually made less profit on Ethereum while the Halsoot Strategy made more. Great! No, because now you have more strategies you can play with and you can pick the best one. The next strategy is one of my own because it's actually very hard to find good strategies on the Internet.

(6:07 - 6:23)
But the ones I showed you before will definitely already change your game forever. But let's check out this strategy. Since 2018, like the other ones, it made 2400% profit on Bitcoin, 15% only max drawdown and 63% profitable trades.

(6:23 - 6:29)
Let's go. All right. Now, the thing is that this strategy, yeah, it's not free, whatever, but this is the strategy I'm using.

(6:29 - 6:36)
Okay, I don't touch the trading interface. Okay, I simply have automated the whole thing. It's nice.

(6:36 - 6:43)
There are no emotions. I don't waste my time checking the charts. It's all awesome, right? But honestly, if I did not have access to this, it's fine.

(6:43 - 7:02)
I can just use the freaking Gaussian Channel Strategy which already made a lot of money because 17x, it's still awesome. Now, how can you do pretty much the same thing? Well, you need to go to signum.money and create an account. Okay, click on try it now, create an account and all of this stuff because then you can take the trading signal from TradingView and you can route it to your exchange to buy and sell.

(7:03 - 7:22)
And that is what I do as well. Now, let me show you in the Signum interface where you can actually find these strategies that I'm just showing you and more because in the menu here on the top, we have strategies for you. You click on that and you arrive on this page where you find the Gaussian Channel, the breakout trend follower, the whole suit and also the Ichimoku Cloud.

(7:22 - 7:39)
I didn't show you that but you can use it yourself. You click on it and it opens up. You scroll all the way down and you click on Add to Favorites, right? After you added it to favorites, you will find it here in your indicators and in your favorite indicators and then you will have it here.

(7:39 - 7:47)
How suit, Gaussian Channel, all of this stuff will be there. You click on it once to add it to your chart and then you can see the same as I do. So it's very simple.

(7:47 - 8:07)
If you scroll down, you also find a very short explanation on how to add this strategy to your chart and as well to auto trading, which is my own strategy, but you don't need that. Okay, because once you have access to these strategies and to signum, you can start automating and you can start changing your game today. Okay, like right now and now what you can do, you can go to my bots.

(8:07 - 8:24)
You can create a bot and you can connect it to your exchange. We're going to add Coinbase in a week or so, not even a week two days and so you can connect it and once you have connected it, you can have all you need here to copy paste into trading view so you can automate it. I don't want to explain this because we already have video about this.

(8:24 - 8:50)
We have screenshots. Everything is explained here, but really honestly guys, the simplest thing to do is create a freaking account on signum go to the strategies page and pick a strategy and automate the asset. Okay, I mean like it's the easiest thing ever and it will with high probability create better results than anything else that you have done before and listen, if that doesn't change your game forever, then listen, I don't know.

(8:50 - 9:03)
Okay, you try you let me know, but if you didn't make thousand seven hundred percent profit like this strategy made here on Bitcoin since 2018, then you need to do something else with your life. Okay, with your trading life. Let me know down in the comments.

(9:03 - 9:15)
What do you think about this? Try it out, but be patient. Okay, because these strategies, they don't trade every day, right? That's the whole point. That's why you're avoiding all the enemies on the small time frame so you can make money on the higher time frame.

(9:15 - 9:42)
Okay, so check the trades on the chart and expect what the strategy has done in the past, right? So if it didn't trade every day, it will not trade every day, right? But if it made more money and protected the portfolio better, then that's what you can expect in the future as well. With all of that in mind now, it's your turn go and create your signum account to start automating and if you have any questions, we do have a telegram group where we help people. We already helped hundreds of people so we can help you as well.

(9:42 - 9:58)
You'll be happy to hear that signum can automate any strategy that you find on trading view. It can trade it with percentage numbers with absolute numbers. You will see what I mean once you start using it and you can also automate trades on trend lines that you draw yourself on the chart.

(9:58 - 10:01)
Speaking of which, this is the next video you should watch.