(0:00 - 14:24)
There are so many different options strategies out there that are available to you as an options trader, but today's video is incredibly important because we will be focusing on arguably the four most powerful options trading strategies that you can trade as an options trader. And let me just tell you, if you can master your understanding of these four vertical spread strategies today, you will make a massive leap forward in your options trading expertise and knowledge. And that's because if you understand these four vertical spread strategies, you will essentially understand 80% of the options strategies in existence. 

Specifically, I'm going to teach you these four strategies using numerous examples and trade performance illustrations so that you can fully understand how these strategies perform relative to changes in the stock price and the passage of time. Before we get started, I should note that there are prerequisites for this video. This is considered, at least in my opinion, the second installment of my options trading for beginners ultimate guide. 

And I'm going to assume in this video that you have an understanding of how buying call options and put options works, how shorting call options and put options works, and I will also be assuming that you understand what intrinsic and extrinsic value are. Without further ado, let's get started. So today's video is all about vertical spreads, but what exactly is a vertical spread? A vertical spread is the combination of two options trades that are placed simultaneously. 

The first trade is purchasing a call or put option at a strike price, and then the second component of a vertical spread is shorting another call or put option at a different strike price. Now, you'll be using either calls or puts. As a quick example of a vertical spread, let's look at a vertical spread setup in Apple. 

In this image, we can see a call vertical spread that I've queued up in Apple by purchasing the $140 call option and shorting the $150 call option. This is an example of a vertical spread because I am purchasing a call option at one strike price and shorting another call option at a higher strike price. Now, this is called a vertical spread because you're trading two different options at different strike prices within the same expiration, and the strike prices are listed vertically on the option chain, so you're basically creating a spread vertically when you're looking at it on the option chain. 

At least that's how I interpret it. But why would somebody want to trade this vertical spread as opposed to simply purchasing that $140 call all by itself? Let me go through a real quick demonstration by hopping over to my brokerage platform, which is Tastyworks. And by the way, if you are in need of a brokerage account and you're interested in Tastyworks, please check out the links down in the description below, and you'll learn how you can get my exclusive S&P 500 options trading course when you open and fund your first Tastyworks account using the project option referral code. 

And look, I don't make money on this channel by having you pay me out of pocket, and by using that referral code and opening a Tastyworks account, if you are interested, it's a phenomenal way to support me and the channel, and that's how I prefer to make my money, through things that don't cost you anything and that actually connect you with things that are valuable to you. So go ahead and check out those links in the description if you are interested. So let's check out this trade right now. 

So I'm going to look at Apple, and right now, Apple is down about $7 today, with the stock price around $124. So let's go ahead and look at a $120 call purchase in the October expiration cycle. If I wanted to buy the $120 call option in Apple today, it's currently listed at a price of about $11.60, and with that, I would have to basically put up $1,160 to enter this call option position. 

But what if I didn't want to spend so much money on this call option, but I still wanted to have a trade that would make money when the stock price increased? And let's say I thought Apple might increase to $130 over the next 43 days. Instead of just purchasing this $120 call option, I could also short the $130 call option, and by doing so, I reduce the cost of my trade from around $1,100 to $435. Now this not only reduces my risk, but it reduces my breakeven price as well. 

So the breakeven price for this vertical spread here would be $124.35, which essentially means I only need Apple to be at $124.35 at expiration for this spread to not make or lose any money. But if I were to just purchase that $120 call option for $11.40, then my breakeven price would be $130.40. So by doing a vertical spread trade, you can actually reduce your risk, and you can make it a higher probability trade that you can make money on because your breakeven price will be much more favorable as opposed to simply buying that call or put outright. So now that we've briefly touched on what a vertical spread is and why somebody would want to trade one as opposed to simply trading an option by itself, let's look at the four vertical spread strategies in depth so that you can fully understand each of these four strategies, and then we'll move on to the more important and exciting topics, in my opinion. 

Now I will warn you, this is going to be a fairly repetitive and lengthy section of the video. So by all means, if you want to skip ahead because you're starting to grasp the strategies very quickly, and you want to go to the more unique and exciting topics near the end of the video, please feel free to do so. And you can look at the playhead on the video, which is sectioned out, or you can go to the video description and click on the timestamps to access various sections of this video. 

By the way, if you are enjoying this video thus far and you like what you see, please give this video a thumbs up and hit that like button down below. And if you're new to the channel and you have no idea who I am, please consider checking out some other videos on my channel and consider subscribing. The first of the four vertical spread strategies we will cover today is called the bull call spread. 

Now as the name suggests, the bull call spread is a bullish options trading strategy that is constructed using call options. The bull call spread is constructed by purchasing a call option at one strike price and simultaneously shorting another call option at a higher strike price. Sometimes the bull call spread is referred to as simply buying a call spread or a call debit spread. 

So these vertical spreads have many different names and it depends on the trader you're talking to, so you'll just have to familiarize yourself with the various names of these spreads with experience. So we're going to look at a real historical bull call spread, and we're going to see how the trade performed over time relative to changes in the stock price. So let's check out the characteristics of this bull call spread example. 

The stock price at entry is $142.28, and to construct this call spread, we're going to buy the $1.35 call for $9.30, and we're going to short the $1.50 call for $1.54. Both of these call options are in the 46-day expiration cycle. The purchase price of this spread is $7.76, which comes from the fact that I bought the $1.35 call for $9.30 and shorted the $1.50 call for $1.54, bringing my net payment for this spread to $7.76. Now, this means I actually need $776 to purchase this spread because we need to multiply that spread's price by the option contract multiplier of 100, and that's something you will have learned in the options trading for beginners video. The breakeven price for this spread at expiration is $142.76, and that comes from the call strike price of $1.35 plus the entry price of $7.76. Now, I just did a video explaining breakeven prices in depth, so if you are unfamiliar with how breakeven prices are calculated or why they make sense, be sure to check out that video in the description on how to get any strategy's breakeven price at expiration. 

So before visualizing the performance of this trade through time, let's actually look at the risk profile for this position at expiration so we can understand at expiration what the profits and losses will be for this position based on various stock price scenarios. The first thing to know is that this strategy has limited risk, and the most the strategy can lose, as described earlier, is the entry price or entry cost of $776. So if I buy this spread for $7.76 and it expires worthless, my loss will be $776. 

And that will occur if the stock price is at or below $135 at expiration, because if the stock price is at or below $135, the $135 call and the $150 call will both expire worthless, and therefore the spread itself will be worthless. The breakeven price of this call spread is $142.76 at expiration, and that means if the stock price is at $142.76 at expiration, the $135 call option will have intrinsic value of $7.76, but the short $150 call will have $0 of intrinsic value, and therefore the net value of the spread would be $7.76, which is the same as the entry cost. And therefore, the position will not have a profit or loss if the stock price is exactly at $142.76 at the time of expiration. 

And lastly, the maximum profit potential of $724 will occur if the stock price is at or above the upper strike price of $150 at the time of expiration. And that's because the maximum value of any vertical spread at expiration is the width of the strikes. And in this case, the call spread has strikes that are $15 apart, which means the maximum value of this call spread at expiration is $15, or an actual value of $1,500. 

So if I buy this call spread for an entry cost of $776 and it appreciates to its maximum value of $1,500, my profit on the trade will be $724. The reason that this call spread can only be worth $15 at expiration is because if the stock price is fully above the call spread, meaning the stock price is at or above $150, if we take the intrinsic value of the call option that I own and subtract the intrinsic value of the option that I'm short, it will always come out to $15 at expiration. So for example, if the stock price is at $155 at expiration, the $135 call that I own will have $20 of intrinsic value, but the $150 call that I am short will have $5 of intrinsic value. 

And basically what that means is that if I want to close that spread at expiration, I could sell the $135 call for $20, collecting $2,000 in premium, and I would have to buy back the short $150 call for $5, therefore paying out $500 in premium, and that would leave me with a net premium collection of $1,500 at expiration. So this is the expiration payoff graph, which only really matters at expiration, but how did this strategy actually perform as the stock price changed over time? Let's take a look. On the top portion of this graph, we have the changes in the stock price relative to the strike prices of this call spread, and on the bottom portion of the graph, we're looking at the actual changes in the spread's value as the stock price changed. 

In the first few days of the trade, the stock price drifted lower, which caused the call spread to lose value. If the spread price declines from the price you pay for it, you'll have an unrealized loss. Fortunately, we can see that the stock price rocketed higher in the subsequent weeks, leading to an increase in the call spread's value. 

You'll notice that there was a moment where the stock price was above the entire call spread, but why wasn't the spread's price $15? Because I know I said that the maximum value of this spread at expiration would be $15 if the stock price was above $150. Well, we will talk about that later in the section titled Vertical Spread Profitability vs. Time to Expiration. 

At around 4 days to expiration, the spread's price was very close to its maximum value of $15. It's worth mentioning here that you can close a vertical spread whenever you want to, you don't have to hold until expiration. If the maximum potential value of the spread is $15, and the spread's price gets close to $15, then it makes sense to close the trade because you have very little left to gain from holding it, but you have everything to lose. 

At the very end of the trade, we can see that the stock price did dip lower and the call spread lost substantial value, and that's exactly why a spread should be closed when it approaches the maximum potential value. It's really not worth holding. At the time of expiration, the stock price was at $148.06, leaving the trade with a profit of $530. 

But where does this profit come from? If the stock price is at $148.06 at expiration, the 135 call will have intrinsic value of $13.06, while the 150 call will have no intrinsic value and expire worthless. Therefore, the value of the spread at expiration is limited to the intrinsic value of the 135 call, which is $13.06, meaning that in actual dollar terms, the spread's value would be $1306. And if I buy a spread for $776 and it expires with a value of $1306, my profit is $530.

(14:25 - 15:54)
So what we've learned with this example is that when you buy a call spread, or you trade a bull call spread, you want the stock price to increase, and ideally you want the stock price to be above the upper strike price of the bull call spread at the time of expiration, as that is a scenario that will result in the spread having its maximum potential value, which we also learned is the distance between the strike prices. So if I have a $20 wide vertical spread, the most it can be worth is $20. If I have a $100 wide vertical spread, the most that spread can be worth at expiration is $100. 

So keep that in mind. We also saw that as the stock price goes up and down, so does the value of the call spread. And this is important to understand because when you enter any option position, it's not a binary event where you only get the profit or loss at the time of expiration. 

The option prices, or the option spread in this example, will change every minute of the day as the stock price is changing, and you can get out of that spread or option position whenever you want to. So just because it has an expiration date, it doesn't mean you have to hold until the expiration date. So to close the call spread in this example, since I bought the $135 call as an opening trade, and I shorted the $150 call when I opened the trade, to close this call spread, I just have to sell the $135 call that I own and buy back the $150 call that I am short.

(15:55 - 17:00)
And you can do this in one transaction at one spread price, and effectively that will realize whatever profit or loss you have on that spread at that moment. So you never have to hold a spread until expiration. You can close it whenever you want. 

So I could buy a call spread and sell it five seconds later if I wanted to. I can get out whenever I want to. All right, let's move on to the second bullish vertical spread, which is called the bull put spread. 

As the name suggests, a bull put spread is a bullish vertical spread constructed with put options as opposed to call options, which we just discussed. To set up a bull put spread, a trader will short a put option at one strike price and purchase another put option at a lower strike price. Now this is sometimes just referred to as selling or shorting a put spread, but it is also referred to as a put credit spread because when you enter the trade, you will collect a net credit, meaning the option that you sell is more expensive than the option you purchase, and therefore you will collect premium when you enter the trade.

(17:00 - 20:43)
And that's why it's called a credit spread. The goal when trading a bull put spread is to see the stock price increase, but at the very least, the trade can make money so long as the stock price remains above the short put strike price as time passes. So if the stock price is here and you sell this put spread here, you can make money so long as the stock price remains above this put spread. 

And that means it is a high probability trading strategy, meaning that you have a greater than 50% chance, in theory, of making money on that trade. So just like we did before, let's go ahead and look at a real historical example. In this example, the stock price is at $146.92 at the time of entering the trade. 

To construct this bull put spread, we will short the $145 put and collect $6.60 and simultaneously purchase the $135 put for $3.07. Both options are in the 46-day expiration cycle. The entry price for this spread is $3.53 that is received since I shorted the $145 put and collected $6.60 and paid $3.07 to buy the $135 put. So a net premium is collected at entry. 

The breakeven price for this particular position is $141.47. And that means if the stock price is at $141.47 at the time of expiration, then this put spread will not make or lose any money. So remember earlier I said that the maximum value of a vertical spread is the distance between the strike prices, and in this case, since the put strikes are $10 apart, the maximum value of this put spread at expiration is $10. So let's look at the expiration payoff diagram for this particular bull put spread position. 

So as we can see here, the best case scenario is that the stock price is above the entire put spread at expiration. If the stock price is above $145 at expiration, the $145 put and the $135 put will have no intrinsic value and therefore will expire worthless, leaving the spread with a value of $0. If I collect $353 for this spread at entry and the spread's price falls to $0, I will effectively make 100% of the profit potential, or $353. 

And so when you short a put spread like this, you want all of the options to expire worthless, which will happen if the stock price increases and is above both put spread's strike prices at the time of expiration. The expiration breakeven price of this position is $141.47, which means if the stock price is at $141.47 at expiration, the $145 put will be worth its intrinsic value of $3.53, and the $135 put will be worthless. And lastly, the maximum loss potential of this position is $647, which will occur if the stock price is below both put spread's strike prices at expiration. 

If the stock price is below $135 at expiration, then the put spread will be worth its maximum value of $10, which again is the distance between the two strike prices. So if I shorted this spread initially and collected $353 in premium and the value increased to $1,000, which is its maximum value, then I will lose $647. So let's go ahead and take a look and see exactly what happened to this bull put spread in real life as the stock price was changing up and down through the trade's duration.

(20:44 - 21:26)
So again, the top portion of this graph features the changes in the stock price relative to the spread's strike prices. As we can see early on in the trade, the share price was falling, which actually caused an increase in the put spread's value. And since the bull put spread is a bullish strategy, it will lose money when the stock price falls, and it will make money when the stock price rises. 

Fortunately, the shares regained traction and headed higher throughout the remainder of the trade. And we can see that the further the stock price increased, and as time passed, the spread's value collapsed. At around 17 days to expiration, the spread's value was already very close to $0, which means the trade essentially already had the maximum profit potential.

(21:27 - 23:03)
And at that moment, a wise trader would close the put spread to secure the near-maximum profit. Closing the put spread would entail buying back the short $145 put and selling the long $135 put. The P&L on the trade would therefore be the difference between the $353 in premium collected at the time of entering the trade and whatever they paid to close the spread. 

So if they paid $20 to close the spread, the profit on the trade would be $333. But as we can see, the spread continued losing value and ended up with the maximum profit at expiration. Because with the stock price at $157.02 at expiration, the $145 put and the $135 put had no intrinsic value, and therefore the spread's value was $0. 

So thus far we've covered both of the bullish vertical spread trading strategies, which are the bull call spread, which is buying a call spread, and the bull put spread, which is shorting a put spread. So one of those is referred to as a debit spread, meaning you pay to enter it, which is buying the call spread. And one of those is referred to as a credit spread, which means you collect premium when you enter the trade, and that is when you sell or short the put spread. 

So you may be wondering, when would you use the bull call spread and when would you use the bull put spread? And we'll talk about that later in the section titled, How to Select the Right Strategy. But for now we need to move on to the bearish vertical spread trades, which are the bear call spread and the bear put spread. So let's get started.

(23:03 - 25:43)
So the first of these bearish vertical spread trades that we will cover is called the bear call spread, which is basically when you sell a call spread or short a call spread. So the bear call spread is sometimes referred to as simply selling a call spread, a call credit spread, and that's it. The next strategy we will cover is called the bear call spread, which is referred to sometimes as selling a call spread or a call credit spread. 

And a bear call spread is constructed by shorting a call option at one strike price and purchasing another call option at a higher strike price. So it's basically the bull call spread from earlier, except you do the opposite, and instead of buying the call spread, you actually short or sell the call spread as your opening trade. And a bear call spread will make money as long as the stock price remains below the call spread's strike prices. 

So if you sell this call spread and the stock price is here, it doesn't matter if the stock price goes up a little bit, as long as the stock price is below the vertical spread's strike prices, the trade will make money as time passes. So let's look at an example. In this example, the stock price is at $141.46 at the time of entry, and to construct this spread, I will short the $142 call for $1.93 and buy the $145 call for $0.87. Both options are in the 32-day expiration cycle. 

So the entry price for this spread is $1.06 that is received, since the call that I shorted, the $142 call, is more expensive than the call that I purchased, and this results in a net premium collection at the time of entering the trade. So let's look at the expiration payoff graph for this position. As we can see, the best case scenario is that the stock price is below $142 at expiration, as that would lead to the $142 and $145 calls expiring worthless, which means the call spread's value is $0. 

If I short the call spread for $106 and it expires worthless, I'll make the full profit of $106. The breakeven price is $143.06, which means if the stock price is right at $143.06 at expiration, the $142 call will have intrinsic value of $1.06, and the $145 call will expire worthless, leaving the spread with a value of $1.06. No profit, no loss. Now if the stock price is at or above the upper strike of $145, the call spread will be worth its maximum price of $3, because the strike width is $3.

(25:44 - 26:04)
And again, we have to multiply these figures by 100 to get their actual values. So if I short the spread for $106 and it appreciates to a value of $300, I will lose $194. But this is just the expiration payoff graph, and we know that this does not reflect what will happen before expiration.

(26:04 - 28:45)
So let's go ahead and look at a performance visualization for this position to see exactly how the trade performed relative to changes in the stock price as time was passing. The first thing to note is the correlation between the stock price and the spread price, and since this is a bearish call spread trade, I want the stock price to fall and be below $142 at expiration. About halfway through this trade, with 17 days to expiration, we can see that the stock price was approaching the $145 price level, and we can see that the spread's value was at $2, representing an unrealized loss of about $94 at that time. 

But as a few more weeks passed, we can see that the stock price declined steadily, and with two days to expiration, the stock price was well below the call spread's strike prices, and the spread price itself was almost $0. So with the best case scenario being that the spread price falls to $0, it would make sense at that moment to close that spread if the price gets close to $0. Now to close a short call spread, meaning a call spread that you sold as an opening trade, you just need to buy back that same call spread to close it, which would consist of buying back the short call and selling the long call. 

So in this trade, that would mean buying back the short $142 call and selling the long $145 call, and this can be done in one transaction. So if I paid $0.20 to buy back the spread, my net profit would be $86 because I initially shorted the spread for $1.06. In terms of this spread's value at expiration, the stock price was at $142.26, which means the $142 call had intrinsic value of $0.26, and the $145 call expired worthless. Therefore, the price of the $142-$145 bear call spread at expiration was $0.26, or a real value of $26. 

So if I shorted this spread for $106 and it had value of $26 at expiration, my profit would be $80. All right, so we've got one vertical spread strategy left, and then we will get to the fun stuff, at least in my opinion, because the next sections are going to be critical in your understanding of vertical spread profitability and how you can make more and more money on your vertical spread positions. The final of the four vertical spread strategies that we have to discuss is the bear put spread, which is sometimes referred to as simply buying a put spread or a put debit spread, since you pay to enter the put spread.

(28:45 - 31:28)
To enter a bear put spread position, a trader will buy a put spread at one strike price and short another put option at a lower strike price. And the goal is to see the stock price fall below both of the put spread strike prices, and that would lead to the maximum profit at expiration. And since the put that you purchase will be more expensive than the put that you short when you enter the trade, this position will require that you pay to enter the position, and for that reason, it is sometimes called a put debit spread. 

So let's take a look at an example and then move on to the more important and fun stuff. At the time of entering this trade, the stock price was at $780.22. To construct this bear put spread, we'll buy the 800 put for $44.88 and short the 750 put for $22.63. Both options are in the 59-day expiration cycle. The entry price of this spread is therefore $22.25. So let's go ahead and take a look at the expiration profit and loss diagram for this position and then visualize the trade's actual performance. 

The best case scenario is that the stock price falls below $750 and remains there at expiration, because in that scenario, the put spread will be worth the distance between the strike prices, which is $50. So if I buy a put spread for $22.25 and it depreciates to $50, I'll have a gain of $27.75 from the change in the spread's price, but as we know, we have to multiply that by 100, and we get an actual profit of $2,775. The breakeven price at expiration is $777.75, and if the spread is right at $777.75 at expiration, the 800 put that I own will have intrinsic value equal to $22.25, and the 750 put that I'm short will be worthless, and therefore the spread's price will be $22.25, and I'll have no profit or loss at the time of expiration. 

And of course, the worst case scenario is that the stock price is above both put strikes at expiration, in which case both options will have no intrinsic value and simply expire worthless. In that scenario, I'd end up having a worthless spread that I paid $2,225 for in the beginning, leaving me with, unfortunately, a 100% loss on the position. But this is just the expiration payoff diagram, so let's look at how this trade actually performed as the stock price changed.

(31:29 - 33:40)
Understanding that this is a bearish trading strategy, it would make sense that the trade lost money initially as the stock price was increasing. In the first two weeks or so, the stock price unfortunately went from $778 to almost $850, and we can see that the 800, 750, bear put spread lost value, falling from a price of $22.25 to a low of $10. The decrease to $10 represents an unrealized loss of $1,225. 

And that's because I initially paid $2,225 for the spread, and a reduction in its price to $10 means the spread is worth $1,000. So we always have to multiply the spread's price by 100 to get its dollar value. I know it's confusing, but that's what we have to do. 

As luck would have it, the stock rally did not last long, and the share price plummeted over the remainder of the trade. And we can see that at 14 days to expiration, the stock price was just above $750, meaning the 800, 750 put spread was almost fully in the money. The spread's price at that moment was around $34, or a value of $3,400. 

The stock price fell even further, reaching a low price of $720 when the spread had around 4 days left until expiration. And at that moment, the spread's price was around $47.50, or just $2.50 shy of its maximum potential value of $50. And so the trader could have sold the spread at that moment for $4,750 and secured a profit of $2,525. 

So to close a put spread that you've purchased, you simply sell that put spread. In this example, that would be done by selling the 800 put and buying back the short 750 put. If the trader held this position all the way to expiration, the P&L would have been $1,760.

(33:41 - 47:24)
But where does that profit come from? With the stock price at $760.16 at expiration, the 800 put had intrinsic value equal to $39.84, and the 750 put had no intrinsic value. And therefore the price of the 800 750 put spread was $39.84 at expiration, or a value of $3,984. And so if I bought this put spread initially for $2,225 and it was worth $3,985 at expiration, my profit is $1,759. 

So we've covered the four vertical spread strategies, and I know we've gone through a lot of examples and a lot of numbers in these past four examples, but it's important that you understand the basic mechanics of these vertical spread trades, and that's going to set you up for the next sections that we're going to talk about, which in my opinion are much more exciting and I love talking about them and explaining them. And these next sections are going to talk about vertical spread profitability versus the time left until expiration, and also with changes in implied volatility. And then I'm going to talk to you about how to select the right strategy for your particular situation and stock price outlook, and then we'll close out the video by talking about what happens at expiration to a vertical spread, and lastly, do you have early assignment risk when you trade vertical spread positions. 

So let's get started by talking about vertical spread profitability versus the time left until expiration. This is perhaps one of the most important things to understand about vertical spread trading, as the time left until expiration has a significant impact on how profitable your vertical spread will be, depending on where the stock price is. The reason this is so important is that you have to understand one law about vertical spreads, and the law about vertical spreads is that to achieve the maximum profit potential on a vertical spread position, both of the options in your vertical spread must have very little extrinsic value. 

And more specifically, to get to the absolute maximum profit potential, the extrinsic value in your options will need to be zero, which will happen at expiration, or if the spread is so far in the money that the options have very little extrinsic value or no extrinsic value. So basically, the more time your spread has left until it expires, the deeper in the money that spread will have to be to get close to the maximum profit potential. But if your spread has very little time left until expiration or is expiring this day, then the spread can just be fully in the money and it will be trading with very close to the maximum profit potential and subsequently expiring with the maximum profit potential, because if the spread is fully in the money at expiration, only intrinsic value will remain and the spread's value will have 100% of its maximum potential value, which will be the width of the strike prices. 

So in our earlier bull call spread example, I had mentioned at one point in that example that the stock price was well above both call spread strike prices, meaning the call spread was fully in the money. But I had noted that the spread's price was not $15, which is the width of the strikes. Instead, the spread's price was around $12, or $3 shy of its maximum potential value, despite being fully in the money. 

And the reason for that is because the spread was not close to expiration. It still had multiple days left before expiration, and because of that, the options in that spread had lots of extrinsic value, and because of the extrinsic value in those options, the spread's price was not yet at its maximum potential value of $15. Take a look again at that example, and at around 18 days to expiration, we can see that the stock price is around $150 to $50, but the $135, $150 call spread was not worth its maximum value of $15. 

And as I mentioned, the reason is because of extrinsic value. If we just strip out the intrinsic value of these options, we can calculate that at a stock price of $150 to $50, the long $135 call has $17.50 of intrinsic value, while the short $150 call has $2.50 of intrinsic value. And therefore, the net intrinsic value of the spread is $15, which is its maximum potential value. 

And by net intrinsic value, I mean the intrinsic value that I own, and subtracting out the intrinsic value that I don't own, or of the option that I'm short. So basically, if I need to sell that $135 call, I can sell the $135 call for its intrinsic value of $17.50, and I have to pay $2.50 to buy back the short $150 call, assuming that I'm only paying and receiving intrinsic value. And therefore, if I collect $17.50 from selling the $135 call at its level of intrinsic value, and I pay $2.50 to buy back the short $150 call at its intrinsic value of $2.50, then I will collect $15, which is the width of the strikes, or the maximum potential value of that spread. 

So why is it important to understand that the more time left until expiration, the more extrinsic value these options will have, which will prevent the spread from getting to its maximum potential value? Well, the reason it's important is because if you buy a call spread, or if you buy a put spread, and you see a favorable stock price movement that leaves your spread fully in the money, you have to understand that just because the spread is fully in the money, it doesn't mean that you will have the maximum profit potential. And that's because if the spread is fully in the money with lots of time left until expiration, then there's going to be a lot of extrinsic value in those options, and therefore, the spread will not yet be trading at its maximum potential value, or the width of the strikes. So basically, if you have a spread that becomes fully in the money, you basically have to wait for time to pass for the extrinsic value to decay out of those options, and therefore, the spread's price will gradually approach its maximum value, or the distance between the strike prices. 

So I can prove this to you by just looking at various vertical spreads and changing the expiration date, or changing the vertical spread's expiration cycle, so that we can basically simulate the loss of extrinsic value, or the increase in extrinsic value, and see how that affects the spread's price. So let's hop over to the Tastyworks trading platform so I can show you some real examples of this, and we can understand that a fully in the money vertical spread will be trading much closer to its maximum value than that same vertical spread with more time until expiration. So let's hop over to the trading platform right now and take a look. 

So first thing I want to point out is it's an absolute bloodbath today in the market. We have S&P down $125, or three and a half percent. NASDAQ is down 630 points, or over five percent. 

That's disgusting. All right, anyways, let's go to Apple. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to queue up a vertical spread that is fully in the money. 

So for this I'm going to look at a call spread. So Apple's current price is $122.75. So I'm going to look at the $100, $110 call spread. And let's look at a long-dated expiration cycle, such as November 2020. 

So if I purchase, or queue up an order to purchase the $100 call, and then I queue up an order to short the $110 call, we can see that this call spread is fully in the money because this is the $100, $110 bull call spread, and Apple is currently at $123. So this call spread is fully in the money. But we can see that the spread's price itself is $6.95, and the most that this spread could be worth at expiration is $10. 

So let's go ahead and look at the $100, $110 call option in a much shorter term expiration cycle and see if the spread price is higher or lower than $7. So right now it's jumping around a bit because it's a volatile trading day, but we can still gauge the increase in this spread's price as time passes by simply looking at the same spread in a shorter term expiration cycle. So let's go to September 2020. 

If I queue up an order to purchase the $100 call and short the $110 call, we can see that the $100, $110 call spread, with 15 days to expiration as opposed to 78 days to expiration, this shorter term call spread that is fully in the money is trading for about $8.85. So basically $2 more than the same exact call spread with 60 days more until expiration. And the reason for this is that 15-day options have much less extrinsic value than 78-day options, and for that reason, if you look at an in-the-money vertical spread that has less time until expiration, its price will be much closer to the maximum potential value as compared to that same exact vertical spread with much more time until expiration. So the next thing we will talk about is vertical spread profitability versus changes in implied volatility, which relates directly to the extrinsic value statements that I made earlier, because implied volatility literally measures extrinsic value in options. 

So if implied volatility increases, that's an indication that the options have become more expensive extrinsically relative to the amount of time they have until expiration. And on the other hand, if you see a decrease in implied volatility, that means that the options now have less extrinsic value than they had before relative to the time left until expiration. So basically if we hold the stock price constant and we have no passage of time, a decrease in option extrinsic value results in a lower level of implied volatility. 

And on the other side of things, an increase in extrinsic value, holding the stock price and time constant, will lead to an increase in implied volatility. So here are two things that you need to keep in mind and kind of internalize. The first thing is that if you buy a call spread or you buy a put spread, you want the stock price to move so that that spread becomes in-the-money. 

And if you buy a call spread or put spread and it becomes fully in-the-money, you want implied volatility to decrease, meaning that you want the options to have less extrinsic value relative to the time left until expiration, because with less extrinsic value in those options through a decrease in implied volatility means that the spread's price will actually expand towards the width of the or its maximum value potential. So if you have a $20 wide call spread and the stock price increases above both call strike prices, you want implied volatility to decrease because then that means that these options have less extrinsic value, and because of that, the spread's price that you have, which is $20 wide, will appreciate towards $20 or its maximum potential value. The second thing that you should internalize is that if you short a call spread or you short a put spread and the spread is out-of-the-money, which is a good thing for you, then again, you want implied volatility to decrease because that means that there is less extrinsic value in your vertical spread's options, and less extrinsic value means that you will see a contraction in your out-of-the-money vertical spread's price, because with no intrinsic value, if your spread is out-of-the-money and it loses extrinsic value, which is all that it consists of, then that spread's price will fall closer towards zero, which is when you would realize the maximum profit potential. 

Now I don't like telling you things to just memorize, so let me explain these things that I've just said intuitively. A broad decrease in the extrinsic value that exists in a stock's options, meaning a decrease in implied volatility, means that the option market is expecting less volatility from that stock price in the future, which means that there is a higher probability that the stock price will be somewhere around its current price in the future as compared to before. So if you own a call spread, meaning you purchase a call spread, and the stock price is fully above your call spread strike prices, a decrease in implied volatility, meaning less extrinsic value in those options, means that there is a higher expected probability that the stock price will be somewhere around its current price in the future, which means that there is a higher implied probability that your in-the-money vertical spread will be in-the-money at expiration.

(47:24 - 48:10)
And if the probability, or the implied probability, of your vertical spread being in-the-money at expiration increases, the spread's price will increase. So basically, if your spread is fully in-the-money and you own that vertical spread, meaning you buy a call spread and the stock price shoots higher, you want implied volatility to decrease, because a decrease in implied volatility means that there is a higher implied probability that the stock price will still be above your call spread strike price at expiration, and because that means your spread has a higher probability of being fully in-the-money at expiration, the spread's price will increase towards its maximum potential value. And the same is true if you are short a put spread or short a call spread.

(48:11 - 49:07)
When you short a put spread, you want the stock price to be above your put spread strike prices, because then that means the puts have only extrinsic value, which, if the extrinsic value decreases, that means the spread's price will fall towards $0. So if you have a put spread that you've shorted and the stock price is above the put spread strike prices, a decrease in implied volatility means that the extrinsic value has decreased in those options, which will lead to a contraction in the put spread's price towards $0. But the reason this makes sense is because if you have a put spread that you've shorted and the stock price is above your put spread strike prices, a decrease in implied volatility means that there is a lower expected range for the stock price, and therefore the probability that your put spread expires out-of-the-money increases.

(49:07 - 49:55)
And if there is a higher probability of your put spread expiring worthless, the price of that put spread will fall. So if you are short a put spread and it is out-of-the-money and implied volatility contracts, that means that there is a higher probability that your put spread will expire out-of-the-money or worthless because there is a lower expected stock price range than there was before when implied volatility was higher. You may have heard that when implied volatility is low, it is good for debit spreads, meaning when implied volatility is low, it's better to buy call spreads and buy put spreads because the increase in implied volatility will benefit the position somehow because you are net long options, meaning you've purchased options essentially.

(49:55 - 53:53)
And that's simply not true because if you buy a call spread or you buy a put spread, you want the stock price to move through the strike prices, and when that happens, and when your spread becomes in-the-money, you want implied volatility to decrease because that means there's less extrinsic value in the options, and that means the spread's price will increase towards its maximum potential value. And intuitively, that's because if your spread that you own is fully in-the-money and a decrease in implied volatility occurs, that means that there's a higher probability or higher implied probability that your spread will expire in-the-money, and if your spread expires in-the-money, it will expire with its maximum potential value or the width of the strikes. So a favorable movement with a vertical spread combined with a decrease in implied volatility is always a good thing. 

The only time an increase in implied volatility is good is if the stock price is not in a favorable situation, meaning if you buy a call spread and the stock price is below the call spread, meaning the call spread is out-of-the-money, an increase in implied volatility is good because it means that there's a larger potential range for that stock price or expected range for the stock price, and that means that there is a higher probability that your call spread will expire in-the-money, and because of that increase in the probability of the call spread expiring in-the-money, the call spread's price will increase. But if the call spread is in-the-money, you want implied volatility to decrease because you want the implied probability of the call spread expiring in-the-money to increase. So I know this is a lot and it's a little more complicated than the simple examples that we talked about earlier, but it is a critical thing to understand because it doesn't matter if you are shorting a vertical spread or if you are purchasing a vertical spread. 

If the stock price is moving in favor of your vertical spread, meaning that your call spread that you purchase is in-the-money or the put spread that you've shorted is out-of-the-money, you want implied volatility to decrease 100% of the time. The only time an increase in implied volatility is good is if you own a call or put spread that is out-of-the-money or if you are short a call spread or put spread that is in-the-money. All right, so let's move on to the last sections of the video, which is first, how to select the right strategy for your given outlook, and then we'll talk about what happens at expiration and early assignment risk. 

So given that there are four different vertical spread strategies you can choose from, which one should you actually use depending on your particular scenario or stock price outlook? It's really a matter of preference, but here are some guidelines to help you out. First, if you are expecting a strong directional movement from the stock, then in my opinion, it would be better to buy a call spread or buy a put spread since that would be a trade that you could structure in a way to have very favorable risk-reward if you are right about your strong outlook for that stock's potential movement in the future. And guideline number two is if you are not expecting a super strong movement in either direction, but you want directional exposure and you want to place a higher probability trade to profit if the stock price moves in favor of whatever direction you want, but also could move against you slightly, then in that scenario, I think it would be better to go with the credit spread strategies, which means you short a call spread, in which case the strategy will make money so long as the stock price remains below the call spread, or you short a put spread, which will give you bullish exposure, but the strategy will make money so long as the stock price remains above the put spread strike prices.

(53:53 - 55:31)
So let's hop over to the Tastyworks trading platform, and I will show you some example trade setups with these four vertical spread strategies so that you can understand kind of the differences that you'll get with different strike price selection methods and the risk-reward that you'll get with those trade structures. So let's check it out. So right now I have Netflix pulled up on the trading platform, and we can see that Netflix is currently trading for $525 per share. 

So let's say I think that Netflix is going to experience a very strong directional movement to the downside, and I want to profit from that assumption. So I think Netflix will continue losing substantial value in the share price. Of my bearish vertical spread strategies, I could either buy a put spread, and the other option is to short a call spread. 

So it's between the bear call spread and the bear put spread. So let's look at going to the October expiration cycle with 43 days to go, and with Netflix at $525, let's look at buying the $525 put and then look at shorting the $500 put. So this would give me a put spread with a cost of $11.45, and that means my maximum loss potential is right around that number. 

Let me just lock this price. So if the price of the put spread is $11.65, my maximum loss potential is $1,165. But my maximum profit potential is $1,335.

(55:32 - 1:04:27)
So basically, the way I constructed this put spread is to purchase the at-the-money option and short a further out-of-the-money option. So this is just one way that you could set this trade up. But the reason I like this, and the reason I would suggest buying a call spread or put spread with a strategy or structure similar to this one, is because it'll give you favorable risk-reward, and that will be beneficial to you if you are correct about your strong directional outlook for the stock. 

So in this case, my maximum profit potential is slightly higher than the I can lose, and because of that, if I'm wrong, I will lose less than I will make if I am actually right. So if I'm right about my stock price prediction that Netflix will fall, then my profit potential is actually $1,335. And if I'm wrong, then I will actually lose less than that, and my potential is $1,165. 

So let's compare this risk profile with the bear call spread. So with Netflix at $526, let's look at—I could even look at selling the $525 call and then purchasing the $550 call. So what we'll notice here is that if I short the $525-$550 call spread, which is $25 wide, just like the put spread was that I just looked at, in this case, I'll make money as long as Netflix is below $525 at expiration in 43 days. 

So since I can sell this spread right now for $10.95, my maximum profit is $1,090—well, let me just lock this. If I sell this for $11, my maximum profit is $1,100. But if Netflix is above $550 at expiration, then this spread will be worth $25, and if I short it for $11 and it goes to $25, I'll have a $14 loss, which means my maximum loss on this is actually $1,400. 

So when we compare these two strategies of either shorting the $525-$550 call spread versus buying the $525-$500 put spread, we can see that this has less favorable risk-reward. So I can lose more than I can make, if I'm right. But the benefit of using this call spread strategy over the put spread strategy is that it has a higher probability of making money, because as long as Netflix is below $536 at expiration, which is this position's break-even price, this position will make money. 

Whereas if I buy the $525-$500 put spread for $10, then I actually need Netflix to be below $515 at expiration. So the reason that I said, if you have a strong directional outlook for a stock, then buying the spread is probably better, then the reason I said that is because you'll have more favorable risk-reward if you set it up in this manner. But I have to drop something on you right now. 

Call spreads and put spreads, buying them and selling them, are effectively the exact same strategy, just with calls and puts. So buying a call spread is the same exact thing as shorting a put spread with the same strike prices. So let me demonstrate that to you right now. 

So as opposed to shorting the $525-$550 call spread, if I purchased the $550-$525 put spread, which is essentially fully in the money, we will see that the risk profile is very similar. So for the $525-$550 short call spread, the max profit is around $10.50, the max loss is around $14.50. If I buy the $550-$525 put spread, the max profit is $10.85, the max loss is $14.15. Now keep in mind that these prices are changing as the stock price is changing, and it's a pretty volatile day. So they're not going to be exactly the same, but if we roughly compare the risk-to-reward of shorting a call spread or buying a put spread using the same strike prices, they will essentially have the exact same risk profile. 

So if we do that once more, go back to...well, let's look at a different example. If I short the $500-$475 put spread, this has max profit of $9.25, maximum loss potential of $15.75, but to get this same exact position, I could look at buying the $475-$500 call spread. So let's see what the risk-reward profile for that is. 

So buy the $475, short the $500, max profit $9.65, max loss $15.35. So they are very similar in nature, and this gets into the realm of option synthetics, which is how you can construct the same option positions in different ways. But the reason that I'm bringing this up is because I think it is awkward to purchase an in-the-money vertical spread, much like I think it is awkward to short an in-the-money vertical spread. So if you want to place a high-probability trade, then I think it is better to short an out-of-the-money vertical spread, or if you want a very favorable risk-to-reward trade based on a very strong directional outlook, then I think it is better to buy an at-the-money or out-of-the-money vertical spread as compared to buying a deep in-the-money vertical spread, because if you buy an in-the-money vertical spread, the profit potential will be less than the risk, and if you buy an out-of-the-money vertical spread, the profit potential will be more than the risk. 

So when you have a very strong directional outlook for a stock, I think it is more beneficial to give yourself better risk-reward as compared to putting on a higher-probability trade, where if you're right about that strong directional outlook, you'll make a little bit of money, but if you're wrong, you'll lose more than you could have made. So it's really a matter of preference, and I would encourage you to go on the trading platform and play around with the different trade structures and see what the risk and the reward profile is for those vertical spreads, but in my opinion, if you have a very strong directional outlook for a stock, then I think it is better to buy a call spread or put spread, namely one that is at-the-money, meaning you buy an at-the-money strike and short an out-of-the-money option, or you even purchase an out-of-the-money vertical spread, because those will give you the most favorable risk-to-reward profiles. All right, so let's close out this video by talking about what happens at expiration to a vertical spread, and is there early assignment risk when you are trading vertical spreads? So understanding what happens to a vertical spread is fairly simple, because at expiration, any option that is in the money that is held through expiration will automatically be exercised. 

So for vertical spreads, what this means is that if your vertical spread is out-of-the-money, meaning the options have no intrinsic value, then at expiration, those options will expire worthless, and they will not convert into any stock positions. So those worthless options will simply disappear from your trading account, and that'll be it. Now, if your vertical spread is fully in-the-money, which means both of the options in the vertical spread have intrinsic value, and you hold that position through expiration, then both of the options will actually automatically be exercised and convert into the corresponding stock positions associated with whether that's a short or long call, or a short or long put. 

So for example, if I have a 125-130 call spread that I've purchased, and the stock price is at 135 at expiration, and I hold the spread through expiration, the long 125 call that I own will automatically get exercised, and I will buy 100 shares of stock at $125 per share, but the 130 call that I am short will also automatically be exercised, and since I'm short that option, that means I will be assigned on the short 130 call. And that means I will sell 100 shares of stock at $130 per share. So basically what will happen if the 125-130 call expires in-the-money, I'll buy 100 shares at $125, and I will simultaneously sell those shares at $130, and basically I will make $500 on that difference, because I will buy 100 shares at $125, and I will sell those 100 shares at $130, pocketing the $500 gain on that transaction.

(1:04:27 - 1:12:44)
But if I paid $250 for the spread when I entered the trade, my net profit would be $250 in that particular example. So if the vertical spread is fully in-the-money, and you allow it to expire in-the-money, then the exercise and assignments will offset, and you will not end up with any stock position after expiration. Regardless of that though, you will pay exercise and assignment fees based on whatever your brokerage firm charges, and I actually would not recommend holding a vertical spread through expiration, just because you have the option to close it before expiration, in which case you don't have to worry about what's going to happen when those options expire in-the-money. 

So in general, I think it is a good idea to always close option positions before expiration, unless they are extremely deep out-of-the-money, and they're just going to expire worthless anyways. But lastly, what happens if a vertical spread is only partially in-the-money at expiration? Let's say I buy the 100 put, and I short the 90 put, and the stock price is at $93 at expiration. Well, the 100 put is in-the-money, and the 90 put is out-of-the-money. 

So this means if I hold the position through expiration, the 100 put that I own will automatically be exercised, and I will therefore short 100 shares of stock at the put strike price of $100. So I will end up with a stock position which would be shorting 100 shares of stock at the put strike price of $100. But the 90 put that I shorted initially will expire out-of-the-money, because it doesn't have any intrinsic value if the stock price is at $93. 

And because of that, the 90 put will expire worthless, but the 100 put that I owned will be exercised automatically, and I will effectively short 100 shares of stock at that put strike price of $100. So if your vertical spread is only partially in-the-money, meaning the stock price is in between the strike prices when it expires, if you hold that spread through expiration, you will end up with a stock position. And again, as I mentioned earlier, I think it is a good idea to close vertical spreads before expiration, especially if they are partially in-the-money, because in that scenario, you will end up with a stock position. 

And in most cases, you probably won't want to be taking the stock position, because if you're trading options, especially if you're trading in a smaller account, that stock position is going to represent a value that is significantly larger than whatever option position you have. And for that reason, if your spread is partially in-the-money at expiration, I would really recommend closing that spread before it expires so that you don't end up with a stock position, and especially if you don't want the stock position. And lastly, is there assignment risk when trading vertical spreads? And the answer is yes. 

Since there is a short option component of all of the four vertical spread strategies, when you're trading a vertical spread, if the vertical spread is in-the-money, meaning that the short option is in-the-money, then theoretically you do have risk of being assigned on that short option, because the only time you'll be assigned on a short option is if it is in-the-money. But at the same time, there really is not a high risk of early assignment, because if you're short an in-the-money option and it has lots of extrinsic value in its price, it is very unlikely to be exercised by the person that owns it, because whoever exercises the option with extrinsic value will effectively burn the extrinsic value in that option and give it up unnecessarily. So for that reason, a rational trader would never exercise an option that has lots of extrinsic value, and if they did exercise an option that had lots of extrinsic value, they would essentially be forfeiting all of that extrinsic value, and if you're short that option, that means you will actually be benefiting by the amount of that extrinsic value. 

In the case of early assignment, there is an early assignment risk when you're trading vertical spreads, primarily if the short option is deep in-the-money with very little extrinsic value. But in the case of buying a call spread or buying a put spread, if the spread is so deep in-the-money that the short option has very little extrinsic value, that also means that the long option that you own also has very little extrinsic value, and for that reason, that means the spread is probably trading for very close to its maximum potential value, and you should be closing it anyways. If you own a call spread or you own a put spread, there should never be a scenario where you're worried about early assignment, because in the case where you could be assigned early on that short option because it is in-the-money with very little extrinsic value, that means your put spread or call spread is already trading near the maximum profit potential, and therefore, you should close that position. 

Now on the other hand, if you are short a call spread or you are short a put spread and it is fully in-the-money, then your short option is actually going to have less extrinsic value than the long option, and in this scenario, you are much more likely to be assigned before expiration. Since your short spread is actually fully in-the-money, and that means you have a losing position, it's a little harder to tell you to close that spread because it is illogical to close a vertical spread that is close to the maximum loss potential, because you have very little left to lose, but you have everything left to gain. So it's a little trickier when you're short a call spread or put spread and it is deep in-the-money with early assignment risk, because in that scenario, the spread is probably trading at a point that leaves you with near the maximum loss potential, and in general, if you have already lost almost all you can lose on a trade, it doesn't make sense to close it. 

But in this case, it's tricky because if you continue holding that position, there's a chance that you'll get assigned early on that short in-the-money option, but keep in mind that that does not hand you a huge loss, because you still have the long option that is also in-the-money, and you could just close the stock position and close the long option to unwind that position, or you could exercise the in-the-money option that you own, which would effectively close out that stock position that you were assigned into. But again, I would not recommend exercising an option if it has lots of extrinsic value. So there's a lot to know there and a lot to think about, but in general, you should not worry about early assignment risk with vertical spreads, because like I said, if you're buying the spreads, so you're buying a call spread or buying a put spread, by the time you get to any situation where you have early assignment risk, your trade's going to have the max profit and it should be closed. 

But if you are shorting call spreads or shorting put spreads, it's a little trickier because by the time you get to an early assignment risk scenario, then your position is going to have close to the maximum loss potential, and that means that you've already lost everything you can lose on the trade, and in those situations, it's illogical to close the trade. But if you want to avoid the early assignment risk, the only option you have is to close that vertical spread. All right, so that's going to do it for today's ultimate guide to the vertical spread option strategies. 

I really hope you enjoyed this video and learned a ton from it. I covered not only the basics, but I covered some more advanced material that I would encourage you to study, namely the vertical spread profitability versus time to expiration, the vertical spread profitability versus changes in implied volatility, and both of those things relate to extrinsic value. So we not only covered the basics today, but we covered some more heavy-hitting material. 

But if you can master your understanding of everything that I've described in this video, as I said earlier, you will make a gigantic leap forward in your options trading expertise. If you enjoyed this video, I would really appreciate if you gave it a like for me down below, and if you left me a comment letting me know what you liked about this video or what you've learned, and if you have anything else to add that other people could benefit from, please leave that down in the comment section below. My name is Chris from Project Option, and I will see you all in the next video.