(0:05 - 0:58)
As a passive income investor, most of my portfolio is built on generating steady cash flow. But I also hold a few growth stocks. And the challenge with growth stocks is simple. 

They don't pay you anything, not unless you sell them. There's no natural way to generate repeatable realized gains. Over the past couple years, I've developed a disciplined swing trading strategy that solves that problem. 

It lets me use one of my growth stocks to create a flow of realized gains without disrupting my long term plan. In this video, I'm going to show you the methods and rules I use to repeatedly extract capital gains during natural cycles while still staying invested in this stock. At the same time, ensuring this strategy complements, not conflicts with my main passive income strategy.

(0:59 - 1:59)
So if you've ever wondered how a passive income investor can successfully swing trade a growth stock, let me show you how I do it. Please take note of the following disclaimers. This channel does not provide financial investment or tax advice. 

I am not a licensed advisor or registered professional. I am a retail investor sharing my personal opinions, experiences and lessons learned along the way. Nothing in this video should be interpreted as advice or recommendations. 

Every viewer is responsible for their own research, decisions and outcomes. Your financial situation is unique and you should always consider speaking with a qualified professional before acting on any information. I might be right, wrong or somewhere in between. 

They are just my personal perspective as an individual investor. As such, all content in this video is for education, discussion and entertainment purposes only. Also note, past performance does not ensure future results.

(2:00 - 2:18)
Thank you. Alrighty, now that we've gotten through the disclaimer, those are all important disclaimers, so please take them seriously. It's the first thing we need to do, which I do at every one of my presentations that are longer, is to provide you an agenda.

(2:18 - 6:52)
So let's go through the agenda. We're going to begin by just saying, let's talk about swing trading. So it's an intro all about swing trading on this entire video. 

We're then going to talk about how and why I started swing trading. Then why swing trading fits my income focused portfolio, because I'm a passive income investor. So Perry, why are we talking about swing trading, which is basically a growth based strategy. 

Then the differences between day trading and swing trading often gets mistaken, but I want to make sure we clarify the difference. Then why I selected my Athabasca oil stock, symbol ATH, as a perfect candidate for swing trading. And then my swing trading method. 

So we go through some of the methods of swing trading, followed that by how the swing trading strategy actually works. And then we're going to go through some real, some of my real life actual Athabasca trades, the history of my execution of the strategy to show you how this strategy is actually been used for over the last year and a half since I've been doing this. We're then going to go through some critical lessons that one must know before trying this. 

You know, always want to give people a heads up on things they should be aware of if they are trying to consider doing swing trading themselves. And then we'll finish it off with some final takeaways. Okay, let's start talking about swing trading. 

So most investors swing trade without realizing it. They buy dips, they trim on strengths, they react to price movements. They just don't have a structured method behind it. 

Swing trading isn't some hidden secret or hidden trick. It's simply a strategy that rarely gets talked about or explained clearly in a realistic way. At its core, swing trading is just buy low, sell high and repeat. 

But doing so in a consistent manner requires some structured and some awareness. The moving average metric is an important guidance element of swing trading, but not a hard buy and sell trigger. It helps to understand the trend, but it doesn't remove judgment and gut feel. 

Also, knowing the company and its sector is critical. It helps you recognize when to pause swing trading, when a breakout might start running, and when a dip is just noise. This isn't a replacement of long-term investing. 

This is a bolt-on strategy that works best when you already believe in the stock you're holding, and you hold it at its core position in your portfolio. Swing trading helps generate realized gains, something long-term holding alone doesn't do. In this video, I'm going to walk you through the methods, the rules and examples, and real trades that I have executed. 

Okay, how and why I started swing trading. So, I bought my first Athabasca stock, ATH as its symbol, in January 2023. And right away, I dove deep into learning everything I could about this company. 

The business model, the sector it operated in, and the key factors that influence its price movements. And the more I understood it, the more I started to notice how it behaved, how it cycled, and how predictable some of its movements actually were. So, over time, I noticed it had a very natural cycle. 

It would run up, cool off, pull back again to its moving average, and then repeat itself. It wasn't that random, it actually had a personality. That's when I began experimenting with swing trading. 

Not aggressively at first, just the small trims and small ads, trying to understand how the stock behaves, and if I could actually take advantage of it. By mid 2024, I realized the pattern wasn't just a one of, it seemed to be very repeatable. The stock kept respecting the trends and the cycles kept showing up. 

And honestly, the reason I felt comfortable doing this is because I knew the company and the sector extremely well. That knowledge helped me avoid false movements and recognize when a breakout might actually be running. I didn't apply this to a random ticker.

(6:52 - 7:11)
I adapted swing trading to a stock that I had strong conviction in, a stock that I was already holding for long term. And once I saw the pattern repeat itself over and over, I decided to formalize the strategy. I wanted a structured way to repeat the price movement without becoming emotional.

(7:12 - 8:24)
And now I'm sharing it because I've refined it, tested it, and I've learned what actually works in real market conditions, not theory, but actual real execution. Why swing trading fits my income focused portfolio. My portfolio is about 85% passive income and 15% growth. 

That gives me stability and cash flow, but also room to be opportunistic. Of my three growth stocks, I only swing trade on Athabasca, which I'll explain shortly. My income ETFs and the passive income strategy stay untouched and continue compounding quietly. 

Swing trading lets me generate realized gains without interfering with my passive income engine. One of the biggest advantages is the synergy. Passive income can fund swing trading when opportunities show itself. 

And swing trading and swing gains can flow right back into my income ETFs. Both strategies can, if they want, feed each other. This combination keeps my portfolio balanced.

(8:25 - 9:02)
Long term stability from income and short term opportunities from swing trading. And even though they're two different strategies, they work together to strengthen my total return and support long term financial independence. Okay, so what's the difference between day trading and swing trading? Many think the two are the same, but they're absolutely the not. 

So let's talk about it. Day trading is extremely short term. You're in and out within minutes or hours, relying heavily on micro patterns, momentum bursts and fast execution.

(9:03 - 11:12)
Swing trading uses some technicals like moving averages, but it's much more about understanding what actually influences the stocks movement. Things like company fundamentals, sector momentum, earnings cycles, macro trends, and even geopolitical events. I'm not just trading lines on a chart, I'm responding to the real forces that are impacting and pushing the movement of the stock's price. 

Most day traders trade whatever is moving. They don't even know much about the company or the sector that it's in. They're just following volatility, volume spikes, and technicals on a chart. 

Swing trading works best when you know deeply with a lot of understanding the company and the sector that it works in. That knowledge helps you avoid false moves, recognize real breakouts, and also to know when to stop or pause trading. Day trading dominates your time. 

You sit in front of a screen, react instantly, and monitor every tick. It becomes your entire day. On the other hand, swing trading is far more passive. 

You set your levels, you understand the trends, and you let the stock come to you. It fits into your lifestyle instead of disrupting it, which is why it works so well alongside long-term and even more passive investing. Okay, so why my Athabasca stock, symbol ATH, is perfect for swing trading. 

I said earlier that I would explain why and I'm going to explain to you in this slide. First of all, Athabasca isn't a random ticker that I trade. I have real conviction in this company and I believe in its long-term trajectory. 

That conviction gives me the confidence to hold a core position and trade around it. One of the biggest reasons Athabasca is perfect for swing trading is that it's a fundamentally strong company. That strength translates into long-term stock price growth, which is exactly what you want when you're buying dips during a swing cycle.

(11:13 - 12:22)
If a swing takes longer to play out, I'm completely comfortable holding Athabasca because I know I'm not in some kind of weak or speculative company. The fundamentals reduce the risks dramatically. Now, I'm not here to promote Athabasca as a stock or break down all the fundamentals in this video why I believe in it. 

That's not the purpose of this lesson, but if you want a deeper understanding of why Athabasca is such a strong company, I've linked and you can see it up above right now, a great deep dive video from another YouTube video channel that covers every detail about Athabasca. Actually, I watched it recently and I was actually learned some stuff in it about a company that I've known for three years. I learned things. 

So if you're interested, click that link and you'll learn everything you want to know in about 30 minutes about Athabasca. Okay. Also, I've spent a lot of time learning how Athabasca operates, the sector that it's in, and the key factors that influence its movement, earnings cycle, sector rotation, macro trends, and even the geopolitical events.

(12:22 - 14:11)
That understanding gives me a huge edge when I'm swing trading. Next, Athabasca has very natural price cycles. It runs up, it cools down, it pulls back, it repeats. 

These cycles aren't random. They are part of the stock's personality and they create predictable swing opportunities. Next, Athabasca consistently respects moving averages. 

It doesn't chop around unpredictably. It trends pretty cleanly, which makes it ideal for a structured swing trading approach. Also, because I understand the sector so well, I can anticipate how Athabasca might react to things like rate decisions, competitor earnings, broader market sentiments. 

That helps me avoid false moves and know when I need to actually stop or pause trading because there might be a run-up or something that could actually go further down. So this is so important in my swing trading is that I know the depth of the sector that it's actually in. Also, I keep a core position. 

That way, if Athabasca goes on a big breakout, I can still benefit. Even if I'm not actively trading in it, at the moment, swing trading becomes a bolt-on and not a replacement. Okay, so let's talk about my swing trading methods. 

I always maintain a core floor position with Athabasca. Because I believe in the company long term, I never want to be in a situation where a major breakout happens and I'm sitting on the sidelines with little or no position. That's the nightmare scenario for a swing trader, watching a breakout without participating.

(14:12 - 14:26)
So, I keep a base position I never drop below. I swing trade above that base, but I never fully exit. This protects me during unexpected breakouts and keeps my long term convictions intact.

(14:28 - 15:33)
I use the moving averages to understand when Athabasca is stretching away from its trend. When the price pushes far above the moving average, that can signal a potential trim opportunity. When it stretches well below a moving average, that often signals the potential for add opportunities as it works its way back towards the trend. 

It is not a rigid rule. It's a guide that helps me see when the stock is extended. I'm not an end-of-day trader. 

I watch for company news, sector sentiments, geopolitical influences that might cause the stock to stretch away from the trend or pull back towards it. But my actual buy-in and sell-out decisions come from a blend of two things. How Athabasca is interacting with the moving average and the real world factors influencing why it's stretching above and below that trend.

(15:34 - 17:47)
It's structured decision making, not emotional reacting. I don't try to predict where Athabasca is going as much as I respond to what's influencing it. Company fundamentals, sector momentums, macro events, geopolitical shifts. 

These are the forces that move the stock. Understanding them helps me avoid false moves and knowing when I might have to pause swing trading. Also, we need to talk about laddering. 

When Athabasca stretches above the trend, I ladder trim. And what that means is I do small sells at different price levels. So if the stock keeps running, I continue capturing gains on the way up. 

When the stretch is below the trend, I ladder my ads or my buys. I don't try to nail it all to an exact bottom that I think it's at its bottom and I do one big buy. I work towards ladder buying. 

In hopes if it keeps going down, I can continue buying at lower prices. I scale it in gradually as the stock returns towards the normal trend. Laddering keeps the strategy controlled, reduces timing pressure and lets the stock movement work in my favor. 

Also, if Athabasca is breaking out with real momentum, I stop swing trading. I don't fight that strength. I let the breakout run and benefit throughout my core position. 

Since I know the company well, I often quickly know what might be influencing this breakout. And I have also set target weights for Athabasca that makes up my overall portfolio. I don't keep batting and letting Athabasca grow stock until infinitum. 

I have a target weight for Athabasca. And since I have also mentioned earlier that I have a core floor position that I never drop below, I of course naturally know the maximum amount that I can swing trade, which is between the floor and Athabasca's total target weight. I might buy into weakness, but I will stop swing trading once I reach that target weight.

(17:47 - 24:24)
And as the trim strengths, I never trim below the core floor. This keeps my swing trading disciplined, prevents overexposure and ensures Athabasca always stays in a balance with the rest of my income focused portfolio. So how the swing trading strategy actually works. 

It sounds similar to the methods, but I want to go through the strategy. So let's talk about that. Athabasca has a very natural rhythm. 

It runs up, cools down, pulls back up, and then returns to the trend quite often. These cycles repeat itself over and over, and they create a foundation for my swing trading opportunities. When Athabasca stretches far above its moving average, that's when I'm starting to trim. 

I'm not trying to call the top. I'm simply taking advantage of the stock being extended. This locks in gains while the stock is strong. 

When Athabasca pulls back and stretches below the moving average, that's when I'm looking to start adding or doing buy positions. I'm not trying to nail the exact bottom, but as it's sliding down, I'm buying into the weakness as the stock moves down and either moves down back towards the trend or even goes below the trend and keeps heading down. I will keep trying to do buy positions so that I can leverage it on its way down. 

And as I just mentioned, that buying on the way down is what I'm talking about is laddering. I never do one big buy or one big sell. I ladder my trims on the way up and I ladder my ads on the way down. 

This removes the pressure of perfect timing, trying to perfectly time and lets the stock movement move in my favor. The chart doesn't move on its own. Company news, sector momentum, oil prices, macro events, geopolitical shifts all influence how Athabasca stretches away from the trend or towards it and how quickly it might snap back. 

Understanding these influences helped me understand and avoid false moves and know when I need to pause. I have a set of target weights, as I mentioned in the last slide, that Athabasca makes up over my entire portfolio. It's roughly around 15%. 

I could eventually at times, depending on the situation, let it go a little higher, but generally I've set it at 15%. That target automatically defines my position structure. My core floor position is at about 15,000 shares and I never let it go below that. 

So I know that any shares above that floor, above that, up to my 15% weight, are the portions that I can swing trade. I stop swing buying once I've reached my target weight and I never trim below 15,000 shares. This keeps my position balanced and prevents my overexposure. 

Because Athabasca is a long-term rising stock, the cost per share is almost always well below my current price. So when I buy into weakness, I'm often raising the cost basis, not lowering it. That might sound counterintuitive, but it's actually a little bit of an advantage. 

By raising my cost basis over time, I'm spreading smaller taxable profits across multiple tax years, instead of realizing one massive gain from one or two big sells. This can lower my overall taxes paid because the gains are broken up into many smaller chunks of smaller profit margins and makes it much more manageable amounts. So trims lock in realized taxable gains if it's not sheltered, like if you're not in an RRSP, RIF, or TFSA, and the ads help manage the cost basis and smooths out taxable income over time. 

It's a tax-efficient way of swing trading a stock that's trending upwards. And again, that's if you're not in a sheltered account. If you're in a sheltered account, taxes have no relevance in this. 

Okay, my real Athabasca trades, how I applied these actual strategies. Now I'm going to take you right into my snowball analytics dashboard and a few other charts as well. So you can see my real swing trading history in action. 

This is where everything from my previous slides comes together in actual trades. You're going to see every element I've talked about in the buy zones, in the sell zones. We're going to talk about laddering in and out, about my core floor positions, and how my stock's personality shows up in these swing trades. 

You're going to also see how news, sector sentiment, moving averages influenced my decision. These weren't actually hypothetical setups. These were actual real trades made in real time using the exact methods that I've walked through with you. 

Okay, so this is where the strategy becomes real. It's one thing to explain the method in slides. It's another thing to actually see it applied consistently over multiple years. 

So let's jump in out of this point and straight into my snowball analytics and my other chart so I can actually show you some real results. Alrighty, so welcome into the charts part. So we've left the PowerPoint presentation and I'm going to start showing you some live data and just walk you around the actual, what we were talking theory. 

We're going to now actually do some in practice. So before I do anything else, I want to actually talk about, forget about Athabasca. I'm using Athabasca. 

You can see this is Athabasca's stock over the past three years. It fits good because literally I've held Athabasca for three years in one month. So it says if I go right to the end, I'm in like mid-February, but actually it was a month earlier, so January of 2023. 

So this is pretty much since I've started buying it. I already held some stock for about a month before this chart started. Okay, so I'm going to use a three-year window for right now.

(24:24 - 27:07)
This is what Athabasca stock has been doing since for the last three years I've been holding it. And the red line you see is the moving average. I tend to use a 10-day moving average for my swing trading. 

The tighter, the smaller the moving average, the more sensitive and more granular it is. It means you'll show more opportunities for buys and sells. It means you're buying and selling your swing trading is going to likely happen more frequently because you're basically having the move average move closer to its movements above and below. 

10 days is what I prefer. If you wanted something like 30 days, I mean it's your choice how you want to use it. I'll just show you what 30 day looks like. 

If I switch this over to a 30-day moving average, you can easily see that it becomes a lot more prominent. You can actually see the spikes and the dips below the moving average. So it's your choice what you want to use. 

I use 10-day, but if you want to use 30-day, that's fine. So I'm going to switch over back to a 10-day. Okay, so in here you can see it and anytime we talked about. 

So the moving average is sort of like the baseline and the baseline will follow slowly but surely in a 10-day moving average or a 30-day moving average. It's going to follow the movement of the stock. If the stock is continually going up, then the moving average is going to go up with it. 

So you can see here. So the moving average is being pulled up with the stock. When the stock starts moving down, obviously the moving average is going to start following below it. 

So for those that don't know what moving averages is, it's the 10-day average that moves along with the stock price. The reason it's important is because if something is breaking away from an average movement, like a typical movement, this is important to see. So I'll give you an example. 

Let me just switch over to instead of three years. Let's move to like a six months so we can see more granularity. So you can see things here. 

It's basically showing that the moving average is trending upward because Athabasca during this period, which was in the August timeframe over to October timeframe, kept on moving up and it kept on holding. But when it does like a serious up, this is an opportunity here for a potential sell or a trim. And the reason is because I don't know what's happening after this point. 

If today was right here, I don't know that what it's doing over anything to the right. So I'm anticipating that this is a good selling opportunity to capture some gains and see where it goes. You can see here that it's going to keep going, but I don't know that.

(27:07 - 28:46)
I know that I've gained because my previous buy likely was below here. So and then so basically you can see now this is where I talked about it stretches. It's stretching away from the moving average. 

The more it stretches away from it, the more it seems like it has upward momentum. If it stops doing it and it actually comes to the moving average, this is basically it's snapping back. It's almost resting. 

So basically you're sitting here. I've done all my sales and I'm waiting now for a good buy opportunity. I might look for like you can see in this period of time, there wasn't many good sell opportunities or buy opportunities. 

I might have actually tried to actually sell it again if I saw it here. This is the important part about laddering. It's because when you ladder, you don't want to sell all your stuff here. 

Like let's say my floor. Remember I said in my video that my floor position of my stock is I sell no, I never go below 15,000 shares. I generally have 25 to 32,000 shares. 

So if this was a situation where I had 30,000 shares and all of a sudden it moved up to here, I wouldn't sell 15,000 shares and get me down to my floor because I don't know what it's going to keep doing. So I might say, okay, I'm going to sell 3000 here. I might here tend up selling another 2000 here. 

And if I don't see any more upward movement, I might just now sit and wait and you see nothing's happening. If I see this happening and look at stretching again, I might turn around and say, you know what, first of all, I might know what's causing it. If this is a continual thing here, this is the importance of understanding the sector and the industry you're in that the stock is in likely.

(28:46 - 56:04)
If I can go back here, I don't know what it was that caused this, but this could have been because the price of oil was starting to move upwards from 58 to 59 to 60 to 61 to 62. If I see that oil is moving upward for Athabasca, that is an absolute indicator of Athabasca stock price going to keep rising. So if I look in the macroeconomics and into the geopolitical things on what's causing the oil price to go up, I will not trim or sell more of Athabasca because I know that the sector is in a movement up. 

So this could have been because the price of oil was at 58 here and it was at about 63 here and this could have been where we saw the first movement of maybe 63 dollars oil going down to 62 and it's sort of reacting. If that's the case and I see it maybe hit a peak, I might sell another position here or latter sell again because I sort of feel based on my understanding of the sector and the industry and how Athabasca operates that this might have been about as far as I can go. Again, I don't know where to predict but I'll be watching what factors are causing Athabasca to move and I'll say you know what that thing is running. 

It's running long. It's running out of steam and I think I'm going to capture some more. So I might sell again and I at this point in time I might over here be and again I will show you later but I might be running out of steam here and I'm going to say okay I've sold up to my 18,000 shares remaining. 

Remember I can only go to 15,000 so I might just sit. Now it's going to go up again and if I say oh boy geez I'm at 18,000 shares I wasn't going to I was going to wait for a down period but if it flies up here again and it's done a major stretch up here again I'll go you know what this is where the guessing and the intuition part of knowing the company and the sector is important. I'll go okay I think I'm going to sell that remaining 3,000 shares bring it right down to my floor position of 15,000 shares. 

Again, I will look back and see what it is and then you see a major dive. Something happened here that caused it to happen. It's usually a geopolitical event that happens because oil is very sensitive to things that are happening like the war in Ukraine or Venezuela so these things happen. 

But my idea as a swing trader is I watch for these movements up and look for the movements down, opportunities to buy. So down here I likely was doing some buys because I was filling up away from my floor position so that I can rebuild swing capacity so that when the next move up happens I can actually take advantage of these. Okay anyways we'll talk about it when we go over to my snowball analytics. 

The reason I want to show Athabasca is but I also want to show others because okay this is my swing trading stock but let's say you're really into gold and silver precious metals and mining. Well here's here's Barrick Mining. So Barrick Mining which by the way man I wish I kicked myself because way back in 2022 I had I had about a thousand two thousand I think about three thousand shares of Athabasca at about twenty three dollars and actually it was a before then if I actually go a little further back it actually dove down to eighteen nineteen. 

I thought oh boy this is a dog man if I would have only kept it like three thousand it's now at seventy but that's because oil flew up so or gold flew up. So if you're into Barrick Gold and to gold mining and and of course similar to that I when I follow Athabasca I follow the oil sector and oil mining oil you know drilling and those kind of things if you're into using Barrick Gold as your stock that you're going to swing trade you're going to learn all about mining you're going to learn about its competition you're going to learn about how how the gold commodity that that it basically extracts works and you could you would have likely turned around here and won some really big wins here because this is where gold flew up to over you know fifty five hundred dollars an ounce so again because you actually using my strategy because you actually have a what's called a floor position you believe in Athabasca enough that you would never in the case of a run-up like this be caught with your pants down you would have likely kept a position who knows what that position is that's your own choice and you would have said okay I sold I sold I sold because I was taking advantage here because again you don't know you might have sold out everything down to your floor position or because you really are aware of the industry and you had a strong belief that gold was going to really keep flying up because of macroeconomic and geopolitical things you might have said I'm not selling anything you know what even though I should be selling and it keeps on going up I might sell some here because this one really stretched but as a stockholder or a swing trader on bear gold you might have just held because you would have said you know what I know this industry well enough and I know the commodity that they're trading is that well enough they you might have just held on to your position this is the importance of knowing the company the sector and the industry that you're in when you're swing trading if you don't know enough about it and you just followed swing trading based on its mechanics you would have followed the rules and said oh okay I'm selling out right here you know like if I go down to about you know six months I might have already sold out right here as it was kept on going to 40 50 60 70 so this is the important part when you're considering swing trading you've got to know your industry another one I'll use as an example which is a lot slower moving but again this is a good one because again all three of these by the way have very high liquidity the volumes are really high so this is royal bank this is bear gold they got up to you know five six million shares per volume and Athabasca has on average about two to three million so it's actually lower than the others but more than enough liquidity for me to get in and out and that's important when you're swing trading you want to know that there's enough liquidity that when you want to sell and you want to sell this hour or this minute you could be able to get out of it so now of course Barrick is much bigger and then yet your royal bank's even bigger than that so if you're for example using royal bank as your as your your stock this is a good one too because for example a lot of people would have royal bank as a core holding in their portfolio just because it is one of those you know rock stars in the growth in dividend environment so you might have it for that but instead of just sitting on it you might do the same thing I'm doing with Athabasca oil and that is saying okay if I hold you know 10,000 shares of royal bank six thousand of it is going to be my core position four thousand of it I'm going to use to do swing trading so you go in here and you might take advantage of buys and sells here again depending on your understanding of the banking industry the financial industry and everything that affects the royal bank chances are you would already know what this means and why this happened but you would then turn around say oh here's a good example to do a buy or here was a good example you've seen a breakout here you could have done a sell here so again you pick the stock then you understand how the stock works what's how healthy it is as a company it's financials it's quarters when you read all your quarterly reports how is the banking industry doing how is Canada's banking industry because you actually got to know even the geography you're in for example with Athabasca oil you're basically not only having to know oil but you have to know the Canadian oil sector because the Canadian oil sector it has its own nuances that actually run a little bit independent than the American or Saudi Arabia same thing with banking it you know Canadian banking has different things that influence it than US banking so these are the things and using that that moving average you can actually see where there's potential for opportunities but again your knowledge of the company industry and sector makes you decide if this was a good idea here to do a trim right here this might have been a good trim if I saw it but I don't know the industry well um and then this might have been a good opportunity for a sell uh but I don't know so let me actually show you some real examples and I'm going to use my Athabasca in snowball because these are my actual trades so here's my Athabasca and I just got to get into my one here so just to give you an understanding where my position is remember I told you I have a floor position so this is my current state since holding Athabasca since January 5th of 2023 I have made total profit of 236 000 on this stock um basically 30 000 of it is unrealized capital gains the remainder is realized profit and loss from swing trading so this is the 200 000 I've made on swing trading 30 000 of it is unrealized gains from the stock price versus the cost price so I've done very well on this one um and the other thing remember I told you my floor position would be not to go below 15 000 and you can see right now I'm close to my floor position I'm at 18 000 that means right now even though the stock is doing really good I actually have room if I wanted to and we'll see what Athabasca does uh next week because it actually is near its all-time high again at 863 I might actually do yet another lattered buy another lattered sale to actually go to to 15 000 shares when I hit 15 000 shares I've now gone to its bottom I don't want to go any lower because I fear that if Athabasca goes to some breakaway like let's say you get a surprise that somebody wants to merge or acquire Athabasca or something happens I don't want to be in a situation where Athabasca goes up a dollar two dollars and I had no position so I will stop at 15 000 so you can see that's the situation current value I have is 18 000 shares and there's my numbers this is the chart everything in blue all the blue dots are buys and all the yellow dots are sells so what I'm going to tell you and I remember I told you in my history of Athabasca I started buying way back here in January 1st or January 3rd there January 5th right there first time I ever bought Athabasca was on the 6th uh and that was uh two two dollars and 17 cents is when I started buying it and I did several buys in here you could see all the a couple times I did a sell I actually capitalized the gain there not a big one but I did um but I started really believing in Athabasca by about middle of 2023 I still saw it as a long term but I wasn't totally convinced by about 2020 mid 2023 I seen Athabasca as a real rock star the financials I really looked at it and I said okay this is what I'm keeping long term so I wanted to start accumulating more stock and I did so I did more buys and sells right here this chunk here I'm just going to tell you this is not because of swing trading I did not start swing trading till about right here right in about here I did this happened because I was holding a lot of Athabasca in my TFSA's and my rifts and I made a decision to actually make my rifts only hold income stocks so I sold my stock of Athabasca realized all the capital's tax-free and basically moved that money out and bought it bought those stock back in non-registered and the money basically it was a buy sell type of situation so so that basically this is where I basically moved so that my Athabasca only sat in my non-registered that's what was happening here again I didn't have to do it but it was just a conscious decision I decided that my Athabasca would run only in non-reg so okay so things started happening here you can actually see here's where I'm going to move to uh I'm just going to move to 2024 July just so I could see closer so I'm going to do say July 1st okay so here's my stock up here so you can now start seeing some of my swing buys and sells so you can see that there was a buy here and I apologize I have to go above it so I did a buy here and then basically you can see I did a sell here okay and then you can see two more buys three more buys and then I did another sell up here so I actually did a lattered buy as it was going down and actually I did a a non-lattered sell right there okay so I was there I did a sell I was at a point where I said okay I'm going to see what I want to do I don't see how much I bought there so I sold 12,000 shares that was a big one and that wasn't non-lattered normally I would have done lattered but that was non-lattered I did a big sell right there so now I was waiting for the next goodbye position and you can see I waited long enough and you can see that the stock really dove down deep because of price of oil going down it wasn't Athabasca that was at risk it was again usually with Athabasca it's sector based or something happening to the industry or the sector or whatever maybe it was fires we don't know but anyways so Athabasca really dropped so that's where I took my opportunity to do two lattered buys here you can see I did one right here I bought a thousand then I bought if I could get it about another thousand here and then it flew up again and I sold and you can now say I was now you know this is where I was here I sold five thousand and basically I was waiting for the next sell so you can see here so there was two cells I sold two thousand then I sold I can't read it I can't get to it two thousand and four thousand so I sold six thousand and then I was waiting for the next now you can see I waited a long time that happened in April of 2025 you see that my swing trading had no activity until I finally saw it grew high enough up that I said you know what I want to take advantage of this so I had to wait until June and I finally did another sell here uh and I took advantage of a major capital gain rate from here to here I bought back a little bit here three thousand shares bought another another uh 5100 shares and then I did another lattered sell here three times one here and one here and one there and I did this and here's the point sometimes you realize like oh boy did I get out too much I thought Athabasca was running even much further and it actually came down from when it looked like it was never going to stop running up as it went down I ended up deciding to buy some shares so I did buy some shares even though it was above my purchase or my sell price not normally you did but I wanted to have a bigger position in it because I thought Athabasca was going to go higher so you can see I bought 10,000 additional shares um and I made the right decision because look what happened to Athabasca after I did those 10,000 it flew up again and I was able to take advantage of two lattered sells here uh if I can hit it unfortunately 1500 and sometimes it's hard to hit and another 3500 so I sold off later sold off here and then I noticed this now this is important because I'm going to go down to six months because this chose me this is something I want to tell you guys about knowing your industry and knowing the market so here I did some lattered sells and then I noticed the market was starting to go down and I thought okay I want to take advantage of this because it might I knew I was heading up to eight dollars again at some point in time so as it was going down I did a buy here 5000 and then I did another buy here at 714 and then basically I thought okay I'm going to wait for it to go up now this if you look right here is January 6th what happened on January 6th Donald Trump decided he was going to invade Venezuela now what does that mean for anybody else well it could mean anything but Venezuela if you know the oil market and the oil sector and you know what Athabasca and Canada's oil is all about Venezuela holds the largest reserves of what's called heavy sour crude which is exactly the kind of oil that Canadian oil oil sands and that and Athabasca actually drills and extracts so the rumor was right away that any Canadian oil is dead because Trump is going to basically take all the oil and flood it with with heavy sour now if you were one of those people that just believed what the news told you that the stock plummeted Athabasca stock which was already down to 714 dropped all the way down to 648 again anybody that knew the oil sector knew that that was all bogus because in order for Venezuela's oil to actually get on the market first of all it would have taken tens of billions of dollars and years and years of rebuilding infrastructure even Exxon and Chevron told Donald Trump that there's no way that that's feasible to rebuild this so again everyone in the industry already knew this I say I got to buy the problem was I had almost no money left to buy and this is the problem I had a perfect opportunity but I was caught with no cash on hand so the best I could do was buy another 1500 shares at 657 I would I was very close to actually borrowing money to actually buy into this because this was such a great opportunity I hesitated but I at least bought 1500 and you can see what happens as everyone that knew about the oil sector was predicting it flew up and basically I within three weeks this money here I gained all that money back and then some so I did a sell here and then I did another sell and then I did another sell this is another lattered sell sell sell I actually like I said I have 18,000 if this goes any higher maybe to about 870 or 880 I might sell the remaining 3000 shares and then I'm at my floor and I'm gonna have to wait so the other thing you can know is remember I told you in my spreadsheet in my presentation that every time I do a new buy because Athabasca is a continually growing stock when I'm buying back in I'm actually increasing my stock price I'm not lowering I'm not dollar average costing it down I'm actually average dollar averaging it up now that you don't want to see that I would love to keep my at my cost per share down at 498 it's currently now at 693 but the benefit of it actually going every time I buy sell this and then I buy back in the price of my stock the cost of my stock goes up so whenever I now do my next sell here for example when I sold it at whatever that is I sold it at at 820 and 827 if I was down at 490 look at the price the and I would not have sold any here look at how much of a profit margin I would have had to actually claim from 493 to 827 since I'm selling it at this price my margins are lower because I've actually extracted it over the years throughout the cycle so I'm actually not gaining as much actual profits because the cost per share keeps going up and following it up there and this is what I talked about it actually reduces my actual profitable taxable profits uh because I'm actually going up in price with it so so anyways that's my cycle I don't think there's anything much more to do it again I do it in my non-registered could you do it in your TFSA's again everything I understand about TFSA's again day trading is not allowed in TFSA's but since you're doing like one or two trades a month you are clearly not day trading you are just swing trading and those kind of swing trades you know a CRA is not looking for some you know everyone goes in and out of stocks on a slow basis so that would be safe in your TFSA from everything I understand if you don't don't believe me go talk to the CRA yourself um definitely you could do this in your RIF uh again so that would be another thing you can do so it's your choice what you want to do currently I only do it in my non-registered so everything I all my gains are taxable so all right so I'm going to switch back and we're going to continue back on to the video okay so let's talk about some critical lessons one must know before even trying this so let's talk before anyone even thinks about swing trading there are some realities you absolutely need to understand these aren't meant to scare you they're meant to prepare you so let's go through some of the things that I think you should know first of all on a chart swing trading looks simple but simple doesn't mean easy it requires patience discipline and the ability to follow a structured method without second guessing yourself second every stock behaves differently before you swing trade anything you need to learn its personality how it reacts to news how it moves around the moving average how deep does a dip usually go how quickly it normally recovers you must educate yourself about the industry the sector and the stock that it's in and what geopolitical events influence the stock and how it moves next you need clear rules for when you want to buy and when you want to add and when you want to trim and when you want to stop and once you have these rules you must follow them swing trading falls apart the moment you start improvising next swings don't play out instantly sometimes the dip continues for a while before it recovers if you panic at every red candle date swing trading will be extremely difficult and stressful next this is important it hasn't been mentioned in the previous slides cash is your ammunition when you're swing trading if you if you are fully fully invested you can't take advantage of dips swing trading only works if you have cash ready and available to buy on those dips next some swings take days some take weeks and occasionally some take even longer if you need instant gratification this strategy won't work for you i've had periods where i actually have sat months without any swing events next you can't chase and you can't guess you can't and you can't react emotionally on news or price movements emotional decisions destroy swing trading you need to be calm structured when you're doing decision making and base it on understanding of what's going on so do research even when you want to do a buy-in or a sell-off this is where you're experiencing the company the sector and the industry and actually leveraging resources to find out what's happening before you actually make a decision next if you believe in the company long term you should never sell down to zero the worst feeling in a swing trade is watching a major up move happen while you're sitting on the sidelines a core floor position protects you from that so this is really important if you truly believe in this company and you're using swing trading as i said as a bolt-on which it should be you should really set a floor position of how much you are willing to never give up in case something runs up like a hundred percent two hundred percent and you can't turn around and say oh i should i went too far i shouldn't have sold the the floor position is what protects you on making you feel good that if this stock does a major run-up that you feel that you had enough of a position in it that you feel good at but good about next this strategy works because it's repeatable it is not about one big trade it's about dozens of disciplined trades over a long period of time the power comes in consistency and leveraging the pattern and finally this is one of the most important things uh no matter how well you know a stock its personality the sector or the patterns no one can predict the future surprises will always happen no matter how much you know a stock or its industry or its sector uh you know news drops it'll always do it and things will happen sentiments will flip news will drop something your job isn't to predict your job in in swing trading is to adapt the traders who survive are the ones that stay flexible okay so some final takeaways before we end this video first of all even as a passive income investor i've found ways to use one of my growth stocks to generate consistent realized gains without disrupting my long-term plans also what you've heard here is i'm not predicting anything as much as i'm simply taking advantage of natural stretches and pullbacks that happen over and over again also the strategy only works because it's built on clear rules setting target weights and core floors and a disciplined approach to trims and ads also swing trading isn't replacing my long-term investing it's enhancing it i stay fully invested while still capturing gains along the way and finally that core floor ensures that i never miss out on major upsides i'm always participating in long-term growth while still benefiting from the shorter cycles so for those pillar investors we've now come to our end and i for for my pie versus pillar members um i've uploaded a full pdf of this entire spreadsheet and this entire presentation including all the talking points it will be in the shared drive you know where it is and which is going to be a good thing so this is the first powerpoint video that i've ever done where i've actually included my talking notes or my talking points so you'll be able to actually go there download it and see the the presentation as well as the talking points and if you have found this video valuable it has taken me a lot of effort a lot of time and matter of fact i had to redo the entire video content twice because of a mistake so please if you really enjoyed this time and the and the value in it hit the like button or the subscribe it really helps the channel grow and lets me keep creating content the way you like it and until next time stay safe stay investing and i will see you in the pie verse