(0:00 - 0:27)
And I could get a stock like RIM for maybe, that might cost me 15, 20 million, Annie, to knock RIM down. But it would be fabulous because it would be leader all the moron longs who are also keen on research and motion. Hey, hey, hey, hey, who is he referring to here? Who are the morons, the idiots, the novice traders? It's a very quick way to make money and very satisfying. 

No one else in the world would ever admit that, but I didn't care. That's right, and you can say that here. I can't, I'm not gonna say it on TV.

(0:30 - 4:06)
This clip is from a leaked video from one of the most controversial hedge fund manager. His name is James Gramer, and he was just caught on camera explaining in detail how he manipulates the market and how he deceives small traders and leave them holding the bag. This video was actually meant for the VIP members of his website, the street.com. And it's actually one of those members who leaked this video on YouTube. 

And within days, it spread like wildfire. I will show you the entire thing as I walk you through it word by word, explaining how hedge funds like Gramer's and banks like Barclays, Citibank, and JP Morgan make hundreds of millions of dollars each time they manipulate the market. And do you know why I named these banks specifically? Well, because they already pleaded guilty to felony charges in one of the biggest forex scandals in history called the forex probe in 2015. 

And they were fined through the roof because of it. Just make sure to watch until the end, and I will prove to you beyond a reasonable doubt that no matter which market you choose to trade, futures, commodities, stocks, crypto, or even forex, each and every one of them is manipulated the same way by a different player. Let's dive right into it. 

Welcome to Wall Street Confidential. I'm Aaron Task, joined again by Jim Kramer. Jim, welcome. 

Good to see you. Thanks for being here. A lot of economic data out today, but I want to talk about something else first. 

Again, today we have the misdirection from the futures. The futures point went up market and as of right now, it's actually down again. Is this just because it's the holiday period that we're seeing this? You know, a lot of times when I was short at my hedge fund and I was positioned short, meaning I needed it down, I would create a level of activity beforehand that could drive the futures. 

It doesn't take much money. If you understood what he just said, tell me, is he a buy and hold investor? No, of course not. He's a professional, an institution, a hedge fund. 

But what is more interesting, he says he needed it down and it doesn't take much money. Let us continue to see what he means by that. Or if I were long and I would want to make things a little bit rosy, I would go in and take a bunch of stocks and make sure that they're higher and maybe commit 5 million in capital and do it and I could affect it. 

So of course, what you want to do requires a lot of money. And that's the thing. More money coming into a particular market than it's going out at a certain point in time, it's inevitable that this market is going up and vice versa. 

So he pushes them a little bit higher with a little bit of capital. How much? 5 million to attract whom? The retail traders, right? That's what he means by making things a little bit rosy. Let's watch what he's doing next. 

It probably is a bigger market now. Maybe you need 10 million in capital and knock the stuff down. But it's a fun game and it's a lucrative game. 

So he pushes the market first up to attract and trap all the retail traders and then he's shorting it with more money, 10 million, to knock this stuff down. And for him, it's just a fun game and a lucrative game because who is making the money here? The institutions because they control where the market is going and they push it to areas where they want the market to be. Makes sense so far? Let's continue.

(4:06 - 6:12)
You can move it up and then fade it. That's what often creates a very negative feel. So let's say you take a longer term view intraday and you say, listen, I'm going to boost the futures. 

And then when the real sellers come in, real market comes in, they're going to knock it down. That's going to create a negative view. That's a strategy very worth doing. 

I would encourage anyone who's in the hedge fund game to do it because it's legal. Right. Who is he referring to? Who are the sellers? The real market. 

Of course, the banks and institutions. And he encourages all institutions to play exactly the same because he knows that they are doing it anyway. And the best part, it's legal. 

They're just using the power of money. More money coming in, it's going up. More money going out, it's going down. 

Demand exceeds supply, it's going up. Supply exceeds demand. It's going down. 

That's the law. Let me now explain the part where he says you can move it up and then fade it, especially the psychology behind it. This is very interesting. 

Watch this candle with me. You see that big explosive candle? You know this is caused by banks and institutions. But are they buying this all the way up? No, of course not. 

They just have to initiate the move. Remember, make it look a little bit rosy because they know that novice traders will get FOMO, the fear of missing out kicks in, and they just jump on the train wagon and they start buying at a premium to drive price even higher. Which emotion is driving these actions in retail traders every single time? It's greed, of course. 

What is happening next? He fades it. They're slowly pushing it down. Why? Because this creates what emotion in novice traders? Fear, the fear of losing. 

That's correct. Now again, are they shorting it all the way down? No, they don't have to. They just initiate the move and the retail traders will sell all the way for them because they are afraid.

(6:12 - 7:31)
They have fear. Some of them might also short down here, which is causing that domino effect. And by the way, which is the stronger emotion here? Fear or greed? Fear, right? That is why when the market starts to drop, it drops much quicker compared to when it goes up. 

That's why it's such a fabulous way to make a lot of money, play the fear in people, make quicker and bigger explosive candles. So now you might ask yourself, well Bernd, we have discussed the banks and institutions, what they do, and we have seen what the novices do, but where are we, the professional retail traders in this equation? Now watch this. Look at the screen and see what picture on the price chart you can identify. 

A rally in price, some basing, and a strong drop in price. Rally, base, drop. Exactly. 

So we just identified a supply zone. We see that and know, ah institutions, I got you. The people who lose, the novice retail crowd that loses, always makes that clear mistake. 

The buyers here are making this mistake. They're buying after rallying price and buying after rallying price is not a smart thing to do. You would never do that in any other part of your life and be successful.

(7:32 - 8:15)
The fact that price drops as it does here, tell us that supply exceeds demand at the origin of that drop. So we apply what we learned to do is to wrap two lines around that level, proximal and distal line, highlight the area with the yellow box, and carry that level forward. Bottom line, we are creating a supply zone. 

So we wait for price to come back into that area, and then we engage. Because we also know that the banks and institutions who sold up here couldn't sell everything they wanted to sell, otherwise price would have never dropped in such a strong fashion. Correct? You understand the rational and psychology behind that.

(8:15 - 10:31)
That's professional trading 101. So let's continue with the leaked video. Because it's legal. 

Right. And it is a very quick way to make money and very satisfying. Okay. 

By the way, no one else in the world would ever admit that, but I don't care. That's right. And you can say that here. 

I can't. I'm not going to say it on TV. A very quick and satisfying way to make money for institutions. 

Right. And of course, banks and institutions will never say how they trade on TV. Why would they? Thanks to the person who leaked the video, though. 

The hedge funds are positioned long short. Okay. Not just long, like mutual funds. 

Mutual funds have that one big risk. They only can go long. They can only make money when price is going up. 

Hedge funds, though, can make money on all directions. You've really got to control the market. You can't let it lift. 

When you get a research in motion, it's really important to use a lot of your firepower to knock that down because it's the fulcrum of the market today. So let's say I were short. What I would do is I would hit a lot of guys with RIM. 

So just to understand this contextual, when this video leaked a couple of years back, research in motion, so RIM was the stock symbol, was basically the Apple and NVIDIA of today. Everybody was crazy about that stock. What was it? Blackberry, the mobile phone company back in the days. 

Nobody's using Blackberry anymore. But just a few years back, it was one of the most hyped stocks out there. You can't create a yourself an impression that a stock's down, but you do it anyway because the SEC doesn't understand it. 

So I mean, that's the only sense that I would say this is illegal. Now it's getting juicy. Who is the SEC? Security and Exchange Commission. 

What's their duty? First of all, protect investors against fraudulent market manipulation. And secondly, to maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets. Why is he saying that they don't understand it? Who works at the SEC? Lawyers and economists, but not traders who understand the mechanics of the market. 

You would hit this guy and that guy when you would see an offering. When you see a guy who's bidding, you'd wipe out that guy very quickly. And what I used to do was called, if I wanted to go higher, I would take and bid, take and bid, take and bid.

(10:32 - 15:16)
And if I wanted to go lower, I'd hit and offer, hit and offer, hit and offer. So what is he doing here? Take and bid, take and bid. The market is like a poker table. 

Money is circulating. It's a zero-sum game. For every buy transaction, you need a sell transaction. 

And for every sell transaction, you need a buy transaction. You cannot buy if you don't have a seller on the other side and vice versa. So what is he doing when he says take and bid? He's buying from a seller and he's buying from a seller and again and again until there's no seller left in the market. 

So what ultimately must happen? Demand exceeds supply, prices go up. And when he says hit and offer, hit and offer, he's selling to a buyer and selling to a buyer again and again and again until there's no buyer left. So what is the inevitable? Supply exceeds demand, price drops. 

And how come he can do all that? He's an institution. He has the money. He has the firepower. 

And I could get a stock like RIM for maybe, that might cost me 15, 20 million, Annie, to knock RIM down. But it would be fabulous because it would beleaguer all the moron longs who are also keen on research and motion. Hey, hey, hey, hey, who is he referring to here? Who are the morons, the idiots, the novice traders, the ones that are watching his TV show every single day, the ones that are just blindly buying into price level where supply exceeds demand, the ones that are trading without plan and only trading out of greed. 

Then you would call the journal and you get the Bozo reporter on research and motion and you would feed that there's a palm's got a killer it's going to give away. These are all the things you must do on a day like today. And if you're not doing it, maybe you shouldn't be in the game. 

Now you see, we are getting into a territory where we have to ask the ethical question whether it is ethically right what banks and institutions are doing. Because what is he doing? He's calling the Wall Street Journal and spreading fake news because they also know that people jump on news and buying and selling based on that information. So when they want price to go up, they spread good news. 

And when they want price to go down, they spread negative news. Or you could argue when they want to sell, they spread good news because good news makes people buy. And if they want to sell, remember they need a buyer. 

Actually, they need a lot of buyers. And how do they get a lot of buyers if they spread good news? Bottom line, we don't know why the media outlets release certain information. We only know that they release it intentionally. 

That is why we can never make decisions based on that information. This is all perception and therefore subjective. I really hope this makes sense. 

And he's even saying if you don't do this as an institution, if you don't play this ethically questionable game, you shouldn't be in the market and play this game. Yeah, Apple is very important to spread the rumor that both Verizon and AT&T have decided they don't like the phone. It's a very easy one to do because it's also you want to spread the rumor that it's not going to be ready for Macworld. 

And this is very easy because the people who write about Apple want that story. And you can claim that it's credible because you spoke to someone at Apple. And of course, media outlets write about that stuff. 

So only extreme news, either really bad ones or extremely good ones sell. Nobody reads mediocre, boring news. So it's really an ideal short. 

You know, I think that's a very effective way to keep a stock down. For him, this is an ideal short and a very effective way to keep a stock down. You use a hat firm that doesn't know what that can do. 

Maybe go to UBS for puts and you just kind of create an image that there's going to be news next week. What is he doing here? This is a little bit more complex, but he's selling stock options, puts to create the illusion that something is wrong with this stock. So he's creating more bad news. 

But the funny part is he's saying that UBS, a very popular Swiss bank, has no clue what they're doing by letting him blaze these stock option orders. What's important when you're in that hedge fund mode is to not do anything remotely truthful. Because the truth is so against your view that it's important to create a new truth to develop a fiction. 

With all the news, the institutions are spreading. They create a new truth for the public. They actually develop a fiction. 

It's just like propaganda. The banks and institutions have the power, the influence to make the public think what they want them to think. And they fully take advantage of that.

(15:16 - 15:25)
You're talking about the mechanics of the market. Well, the mechanics are much more important than the fundamentals. Okay, well, but in terms of the fundamentals, you've been writing about how you think... Who cares about the fundamentals? Research in Motion just blew out the courtroom.

(15:25 - 17:41)
Right. But look what people can do. I mean, that's a fabulous thing. 

The great thing about the market is it has nothing to do with the actual stocks. Well, what shall I say? He summarizes everything himself. So if you have a lot of money, you can fill more orders and you can move the market in the direction you want it to be. 

That's how simple it is, basically. In the stock market, since we are talking about the smallest market, you have hedge funds like Jim Gramer, who can easily move a single stock. In the futures market, which is bigger, obviously, you have banks like HSBC, JP Morgan, and Goldman Sachs moving the market. 

And in the Forex market, which is the biggest of them all, you have entire countries, governments, central banks moving the market, and of course, banks as well. Fun story. When they were investigating the big banks in 2013 in the financial scandal known as the Forex probe, the investigators found out that the senior currency traders in these banks were colluding and discussing over chat rooms their orders, their trading volume, and competitive banks. 

These chat rooms had names such as the cartel, the mafia, the bandits club. What else needs to be said here? It's just fiction and fiction and fiction. And I think it's important for people to recognize that the way that the market really works. 

I think this is a really good summary of the entire lesson. It's all fiction, and people really have to open their eyes and start trading what is real and not what they feel, because this inevitably leads to failure. And you basically just continue to fill the pockets of the banks and institutions. 

The solution is actually quite simple. You cannot outsmart the market, and you also cannot win against banks and institutions. So if you cannot win against them, then we have to trade with them. 

We have to copy them, emulate them, buy where they are buying, and sell where they are selling, and then we can also win. Otherwise, we don't stand a chance. That's it for today's video. 

If you liked the effort, hit the thumbs up, let the manipulators know this is not 2008 anymore. Thank you. Happy and safe trading.