(0:00 - 0:10)
If you don't know how to play with time frames, you simply don't know how to trade. It doesn't matter if you're a day trader, scalper, swing trader, you can't properly top down analysis a chart. You cannot trade.

(0:10 - 0:36)
It doesn't matter what type of trader you are. And if you want to be able to be a sniper trader and constantly win in the markets and become profitable, you have to be able to properly do a top down analysis in the market so you can actually see what the market is doing on different time frames. Now, before you become into a nerd or want to be expert on only one single time frame, I need you to realize that there's not only one time for him to be successful, you need to be able to manage multiple different time frames at the same time.

(0:36 - 1:14)
And these are the main key time frames that you need to know for a top down analysis that is going to be the weekly time frame, the daily time frame, and the four hour time frame does not matter if you're a scalper, day trader, swing trader, you need to have these three main time frames in your top down analysis so you can properly understand the direction of the market, where it's headed and how you can find an edge in the market. So now let's get into the video on how you can properly do a top down analysis. And I'm also going to show you how to actually enter a trade with my personal entry signal that I use every single time I enter a trade and it raises my win rate by even 20 to 25 percent.

(1:14 - 1:35)
So if you have a win rate of 40 to 50 percent, if you just add this extra entry stuff that I use, you're going to boost your win rate by 25 to 30 percent, which can lead you to about a 70 percent winning strategy, which is crazy. So now let's actually get into the markets right now where I'm going to show you how to properly do a top down analysis and you can actually have an edge over the market. So let's get into it.

(1:35 - 1:48)
So first things first is going to be the actual time frames to do the top down analysis. So there is hundreds of different time frames. You have the one minute, the two minute, the three minute, five, 15.

(1:48 - 1:59)
You have all these different time frames. You can almost even create custom time frames of your own liking, which is actually kind of bizarre. Doesn't even make any sense in my opinion, but the possibility is there.

(1:59 - 2:16)
And then also you can go down to the seconds and how many seconds and stuff, which is absolutely just ridiculous. You notice here I have a star on every single time frame that I personally use for every single time I do a top down analysis on any pair on my watch list. So this does not matter.

(2:16 - 2:40)
The currency pair that you're trading doesn't matter if it's GBP, USD, Euro, USD, GBP, JPY, the same top down analysis applies to any pair, any commodity, any future. Everything is exactly the same because it just consists of a top down analysis. The simple analogy that I can put here is if you were to take a car into a shop to do the oil change, it has to pass by the same exact inspection.

(2:40 - 2:56)
They have to see how much oil is in it. How old is the oil in there? How many quarts of oil have to be added and what type of oil? It's the same thing. It doesn't matter if it's a Rolls Royce or if it's a Honda Civic, they have to go through the same oil process to have the standard of what they should do next.

(2:56 - 3:11)
Same thing here. You have to go through the standard of what the time frames are doing to determine if you're interested in taking this trade. So these are going to be the main time frames that I use, which is the 15 minute, 30, one hour, two hour, four hour, daily, weekly, and monthly.

(3:11 - 3:20)
So I put a star on them. So they stay on this top section here. And I only focus on the ones that are needed for a proper top down analysis.

(3:20 - 3:33)
So first things first, what is a top down analysis? Well, it's pretty self explanatory. You have to start from the top down, right? It's a top down analysis. So you want to start off from the highest of the time frame and work all your way down.

(3:33 - 3:47)
So you were to start off from the weekly, then after the weekly, you would go to the daily. Then from the daily, you would go to the four hour, the four hour, two, one, 30, 15 minutes. It's just pretty much a ladder that goes from the highest time frame to the lowest time frame.

(3:47 - 4:01)
But there's actually a very specific way on how to do it and what time frame do you divide from each. Don't worry, it's going to make sense in literally just a second. So for this video, we're going to be using the weekly, the daily, the four hour, the two hour, the one hour, the 30 minute and the 15 minute.

(4:02 - 4:18)
So this is actually divided right down the middle, almost pretty much. And it's divided right at this section right here. Why, you may ask? Well, that is because the weekly, the daily and the four hour is used for one part of the top down analysis.

(4:18 - 4:46)
And then the two hour, the one hour and 15 and 30 minute is used for another part of the top down analysis. So this part is going to be used for the trend to identify if the market is headed to the upside or the downside. And then this part right here, which is the two hour, the one hour, the 30 and the 15 minute is going to be used for the entry of the market that you're going to be executing.

(4:46 - 5:03)
So you have a top down analysis to identify the trend and a top down analysis to identify the entry, which is actually very neat because this way you can actually build an edge and make more money. So when you're doing a top down analysis, you want to start off on the weekly. I have the monthly here.

(5:03 - 5:13)
I don't use it as much anymore. I kind of just look at it every once in a while just to refresh my memory from the beginning ways of my strategy, but I don't use it anymore to be profitable. I haven't used it in a really long time.

(5:13 - 5:18)
Just have it there. It's kind of like a superstitious thing, right? Just, I like it. So you want to start off on the weekly timeframe.

(5:19 - 5:33)
So when you start off on the weekly timeframe in the markets, you're probably going to see a market that looks something like this. You're going to see very big moves, not going to see a lot of rejections, you're not going to see a lot of movements. It just looks like one big blob of a move.

(5:33 - 5:45)
Simplest example I can show you is actively what the market has done right here. It looks like one big blob. So if I were to copy the most recent marked structure, it looks like one big move like this.

(5:45 - 6:15)
Very easy to identify, not that hard to pretty much see what's going on, right? So this market, you can clearly tell that it was going from bearish to then bullish and that this market has shifted completely at this section right here. Let me actually just delete this stuff so you can see how this market has gone from bearish to then bullish. This market was creating lower lows and lower highs, and then we broke the structure level, making this a new higher high.

(6:15 - 6:35)
Now we understand by doing a top down analysis that the weekly timeframe is bullish. So it's going to look something like this. Now, when we do a top down analysis, all we're doing is literally zooming in to the exact same price that you are seeing right here.

(6:35 - 6:55)
So this same exact move that we have identified on the weekly timeframe that has shifted structure, when we go to the daily timeframe, all we literally do is just zoom in. All we do is get a little bit closer. And when we get a little bit closer, what happens? We start seeing a little bit more of the detail of what's going on in the market.

(6:56 - 7:07)
So this exact same market move is what's going on right here. And I'm just going to go down to the daily because I've already done the top parts of the analysis. Now I'm going to start working my way down.

(7:07 - 7:38)
And when I started from the top, I realized that this market is now going to the upside or this market is going to the downside, whatever the case is. Then I go down to the daily timeframe and I notice that within this same exact market move, there is a lot of structure that is happening inside here. So all I'm simply going to do is just draw out the structure points following the same weekly move that happened on the section to the upside.

(7:39 - 7:59)
So if you notice, this is the same exact move right here on the weekly. But now this is on the daily, so we can identify from a top down analysis why it's so important on doing it. Because if we were to only look on the daily, this is what we would see and we would see a bunch of rubbish.

(7:59 - 8:09)
We would see literally the market going up, down, up, down, up, down. It's a bit confusing. But then if we look at the weekly, we get a very clear indication of where the masses of the markets are actually heading.

(8:09 - 8:33)
And this is actually very key because you could only focus on what matters. Do you want to only take a day trade? Do you want to take an overall of a swing trade? Do you want to take a little scalp trade? This is very important because you can almost do a little bit of everything with the proper top down analysis confirmation. Because if you were to look at this on the weekly, you would want to pretty much buy because this timeframe is currently bullish.

(8:34 - 8:42)
But then if you were to look at this timeframe, you would tell that it is bearish. Even though it's probably a beginner trader, this might look bullish. It's actually bearish.

(8:42 - 9:02)
You can see how the market was here, indeed, creating higher highs, higher lows, higher highs, higher lows, higher highs, higher lows, higher highs. And then we had broken this previous higher low, making this market now bearish. So we've identified that the daily timeframe is now shifting to the downside.

(9:02 - 9:29)
And this can kind of make a little bit of sense because for the weekly timeframe, what this can create is an even deeper pullback. So then the weekly timeframe can continue going to the upside, hypothetically. But we know that the weekly could have that deeper pullback because the daily timeframe is now bearish and it's simply going bearish to give this weekly timeframe the deeper pullback so then it can have the push to the upside.

(9:29 - 9:48)
So they're both doing the same move, but one's just pretty much taking the hit for the other one to have the actual move overall. But this is all big hypothetical, right? This is basically what we're having right in front of us right now, and it is 100 percent a fact. And that is that the weekly timeframe is a bullish and then that the daily timeframe is bearish.

(9:48 - 10:06)
So as we're going through this top analysis, we're like, well, does it make more sense to buy or does it make more sense to sell? Well, as of right now, we have a 50 50 can't really get a clear indication. That's why we have to go down now to the four hour. So we're simply going to get the same exact market move from the daily timeframe right here.

(10:06 - 10:18)
I'm going to put it right back into place just so we can pretty much confirm that all we are doing is just zooming in. So we all agree that this is the market structure there. Now we go down to the four hours.

(10:18 - 10:39)
So we already started from the top and we're working our way down. Now this is currently how this looks on the four hour timeframe. So for example's purposes, I'm going to simply start it off from this point right here just because there's a lot of market structure and I can pretty much be on night identifying every single one of these structure points.

(10:39 - 11:10)
So just going to follow every single higher, low and higher high that this market created along the way of it heading to the upside and every lower, lower, lower high that this market created heading to the downside. So as you guys can see, you might look a little bit messy, but once I move it to the outside, you can see very clearly right here that came out from that four hour section and that this right here is the original daily structure move. So we're making this very, very simple, very, very straightforward.

(11:10 - 11:25)
This is what the top down analysis looks like on the weekly timeframe. This is what the top down analysis looks like on the daily timeframe. And now this is what the top down analysis looks like on the four hour timeframe.

(11:25 - 11:41)
Everything you're seeing here is the exact same market. As you can tell, it's been GBP USD the whole entire way. The only thing that has changed is that we have gotten in closer and closer and closer to identify what makes more sense.

(11:41 - 11:52)
Does it make more sense to buy or does it make more sense to sell? Because at the end of the day, the market's going to do two things. It's either going to go up or it's going to go down. We're simply trying to find an edge on where it makes the most sense that the market's going to go.

(11:52 - 12:13)
And as of right now that we've identified the weekly timeframe as bullish and we've identified the daily timeframe as bearish, we can confirm that the four hour timeframe is also bearish. Why? Maybe it's a beginner trader. You can identify this as bullish, but it's actually the same exact concept as the daily timeframe.

(12:14 - 12:31)
This market was creating beautiful higher lows and higher highs heading to the upside. But then this was the last higher low, broke under that structure level, making the four hour timeframe now bearish. So as you can see, this is the move that fits perfectly inside here.

(12:31 - 12:48)
And this is the move that perfectly fits inside of this market structure right here. So every single timeframe that we go down, we just get more in detail on what the hell the market is doing exactly. This way we can find an edge on what decisions should we take.

(12:48 - 13:28)
So based off of this right here, off of creating a top down analysis, my bias is already making more sense to enter a sell than to enter a buy. Why? Because as I started from the top and I started working my way down with the top down analysis, it's clearly that two timeframes are going bearish versus one timeframe is bullish. So as of right now, that is literally only the first half of top down analysis, which is going to be the weekly, the daily and the four hours to simply understand the trend of the market, where is the majority of the timeframes headed? So we can pretty much create an edge on that direction and take the trade that way.

(13:28 - 13:49)
Now, this is what I do personally for myself to catch day trades, inter day trades and also swing trades. Some of you scalpers out there, people that are taking even trade on the lower timeframes, you guys don't have to start on the weekly. You guys can pretty much go daily four hour, two hour, and then you look for your entries from the lower timeframes down.

(13:50 - 14:19)
I personally like the weekly, the day and the four hour simply because the higher timeframes are more respected than the lower timeframes. Why? Well, it's because it takes the weekly a lot more time to create a structure point than it does on the one hour in order for the one hour to create a structure point can literally happen within four to five hours, which happens very often. But on the weekly timeframe for it to create a structure point, it takes about four to five weeks to create the same structure point.

(14:19 - 14:43)
So what do you think is going to have a stronger basis of holding price? Something that happens every four or five hours that can happen tens of times throughout the day. Or do you think something that happens once every month to month and a half? It's pretty logical in my opinion. That's why I stick to the stronger because at the end of the day, I want to put my money behind something that is going to give me more odds of making me money versus not.

(14:43 - 15:08)
Just doesn't make sense in my mind. So after we understand that this is the top down analysis for the trend of the markets, now we're going to go through the top down analysis of the entry part, which is very key because it's where a lot of traders pretty much just want to jump the gun and go straight into entering the market. But they got to understand that before entering the market, they have to properly do a top down analysis to actually be able to execute a trade.

(15:08 - 15:21)
So now that we understand that two of these timeframes are bearish, I'm just going to remove the one that's bullish because we're not interested in buying at all and we should not be interested in buying at all. We don't want to take account to trend trade. Makes no sense.

(15:21 - 15:35)
It's a high risk trade. So we're going to only look for reasons to sell. So now that we have our two timeframes that are going to confirm to us that this is bearish, we're going to now look for entries on the two hour, the one hour, the 30 minute and the 15 minute.

(15:36 - 15:54)
So what exactly are we looking for on these timeframes in order to take the trade? Now, this is literally where you're about to have a aha moment. You're literally about to tell yourself, wow, I cannot believe that I have not been seeing this. So like I think it's literally like been right in front of your face the whole entire time.

(15:54 - 16:27)
And that is if we are selling, why don't we continue the selling top down analysis market structure on the entry points? What does that mean? Let me show you. So if we are interested in selling this market right here, we know that this is what it looks like from the daily to the four hour here. Now, this exact same market structure, let's say hypothetically on the 30 minutes to show you guys very simply with the same exact market that we're currently using.

(16:27 - 16:41)
You can see that on the 30 minute, it's going to look very, very different. Let me just bring this here, put it back on where the market is. So we know that we're exactly on the same market that we drew up in this section right here.

(16:41 - 16:52)
Now, this is just back on this area. So let's look at it on the 30 minutes. So if we go on the 30 minute timeframe, you can see how we're just going to structure up this last section here.

(16:52 - 17:18)
You can see how it consists of a lot more structure points, literally creating a bunch of little higher lows and higher highs throughout the whole entire way. And this is obviously happening a lot faster than the four hour timeframe than the daily timeframe, so on and so forth. So if you notice right here, this market on the 30 minute timeframe looks very different than you would want it to.

(17:18 - 17:24)
Now, what do I mean by that? It's very confusing. Well, don't worry. It's about to make a lot of sense right now.

(17:25 - 17:46)
So I'm just pretty much dragging this all the way back to our four hour section, which is going to be right around over here. So what I have done right here is I've literally brought in this zoomed in section of the entry area of GBPUSD on the 30 minutes from the four hours. So this is the four hour timeframe.

(17:47 - 18:12)
Now, this is what it looks like on the 30 minute timeframe. So I've obviously only focused on this section here, because if I were to pretty much go back, all this would look very rubbish, it would have a lot of different structure points and doesn't matter to what we're about to do right now. So if this is what the four hour timeframe looks like, and we've understood that this timeframe is bearish, I'm just going to put it here so it's very visual.

(18:13 - 18:37)
And this is what the 30 minute timeframe looks like. What is this 30 minute timeframe doing right now? Are we actively bullish or are we actively bearish? Well, once again, probably to a beginner trader, this timeframe might be bearish, but they're actually wrong. This timeframe is bullish.

(18:37 - 19:04)
This market was creating lower lows, lower highs, lower lows, lower highs, lower lows, lower highs, lower lows. And we have now shifted to the upside, making this 30 minute timeframe bullish. So now that this 30 minute timeframe is bullish, well, it doesn't mean that it's the right time to enter this trade because we are looking to sell and we can only sell when we have a bearish market.

(19:05 - 19:23)
If we have a lower timeframe, which is the timeframe that we're going to enter, that is against our overall top down analysis trend. It simply does not make sense to enter the trade. The lower timeframes have not shifted the structure yet, making it not logical to enter the trade.

(19:23 - 19:51)
So this right here would be a perfect example of a loss that a trader would take or a position that I personally would avoid. So to make this very simple and very straight to the point, it simply comes down to this. If this is going to be, let's say, the four hour timeframe and this is what the market would look like on the four hour and if I were to divide it from four hour to then 30 minutes, this is what it would look like on the 30 minute.

(19:52 - 20:04)
Let me just make it a very clear cut through version of what it could look like following the same path. This is simply going from the four hour to the 30 minute timeframe. They're obviously exactly the same.

(20:04 - 20:19)
This is simply just four hour and then this is going to be 30 minutes. We are analyzing this market, looking to take this trade to the upside. This is where we would wait for this pullback here to then buy.

(20:20 - 20:49)
This is going to be the key of a patient trader waiting for this area to hit to then enter the position. Now, this is where top down analysis is so crucial because this pullback right here is going to give you the perfect confirmation that you have to wait. Why? Because now this timeframe has gone bearish all the way up to this area in here and you cannot enter this market as long as this market continues bearish.

(20:49 - 21:23)
You could only enter on this market once it has shifted with the overall timeframes from the top analysis. If the four hour and then the daily timeframe are bullish, you want to make sure that then the 30 minute timeframe is also bullish with the overall timeframes on the pullback. It went bearish and then we have to wait for it to simply go bullish so we can then continue to take this trade to the upside.

(21:23 - 21:45)
The key is when you're going to enter the trade on the lower timeframes, you want to make sure that it aligns with the trend of the overall top down analysis. If you were to write down one thing from this one entire video, that would be it right there. So pause the video, watch it, and as you pause the video, hit that subscribe button because this shit right here took me like two and a half years to understand.

(21:46 - 22:01)
And the fact that I'm just putting it in this video right now is actually crazy. So hit that subscribe button right now because nobody else is making it as simple and as effective as I am right now because this alone can boost your win rate by 25 to 30%. So make sure you hit that subscribe button.

(22:01 - 22:09)
So this obviously looks very simple on line chart, right? But we don't trade line charts. We trade candlesticks. Let me actually show you how it looks like on the candlestick section.

(22:09 - 22:25)
So I'm just going to pretty much hold on to this for just a quick second. I'm going to show you guys on this very live example that I'm actually very eager to enter right now. So as you guys can see, this is a very clear shift of structure and we were to start off from the daily timeframe.

(22:26 - 22:50)
Well, let's start off from the weekly, right? Weekly we can very clearly tell that we have had a lower low, lower high, lower low. Now we've had a higher high. Weekly timeframe is actually bullish, but you can see how we have very strong weekly rejection candlesticks confirming to us that this can pretty much not like this area and have a deeper pullback to then continue to head to the outside because the overall trend is bullish on the weekly timeframe.

(22:50 - 23:05)
Now starting from the top, we're going our way down to the daily timeframe. You can see that the daily timeframe has actually shifted structure beautifully. You can see how we have a very valid left head and then a right shoulder.

(23:06 - 23:17)
You have confirmed broken through the neckline of that head and shoulder. Well, now this timeframe is bearish. So we have two completely different timeframes telling us two completely different things.

(23:17 - 23:27)
It's 50 50. You want to go with the weekly 50% of going up, you want to go with the daily 50% chance of going down. Well, I'm not going to take a trade on a 50 50 chance.

(23:27 - 23:46)
I want to have the majority of the possibilities that I can in order to tend to enter this trade. That's why I'm going to go down now to the four hour to continue this top down analysis. When I come over to the four hour, I can very clearly tell that this four hour was in a bullish trajectory heading to the upside, creating higher highs and higher lows.

(23:46 - 24:09)
And then we had this massive bearish move that has engulfed pretty much the last couple of weeks in one single session. What it did indicating to us that, well, now the four hour is bearish as well, giving us two timeframes that are bearish versus one. Now I want you to ask yourself what makes more sense to sell or to buy, obviously to sell.

(24:09 - 24:22)
So now we move over to the entry parts of the actual trade. So you can go to the two hour, the one hour, the 30 minute, the 15 minute, whatever looks cleaner. I like the 30 minute the most out of anything.

(24:23 - 24:42)
So when I go over to the 30 minutes, you guys can see here that in the 30 minutes we have structure everywhere. We have structure here heading to the upside, then we have structure here heading to the downside. And on this structure heading to the downside, we can see how we created a insane amount of a double bottom.

(24:42 - 24:57)
And then we have now shifted to the upside, making the 30 minute timeframe bullish. You cannot enter a cell if you have a bullish timeframe. What do you have to do? You have to wait for this timeframe to now go bearish.

(24:58 - 25:12)
And once it goes bearish, then you can continue to take the trade with the overall market. Now I don't think you guys understand how powerful this is. This is literally the market showing you its hand first so you can then follow it.

(25:13 - 25:22)
A lot of traders want to predict the market's hand before it actually happens. Not me. I want the market to show me what it's going to do after it shows me what it's going to do.

(25:22 - 25:26)
I'm like, all right, cool. You're actually going to go down. Well, I'll jump in with you.

(25:26 - 25:36)
I don't want to predict that it's going to go down. I want to wait for it to confirm that it's going to continue going down with these other timeframes so that I can actually then jump on the ship with it. It's almost like a hack.

(25:36 - 25:50)
It's literally telling you, hey, I'm actually going to start going down to the downside now. The lower timeframes are pretty much letting you know that. So when you get over to the four hour timeframe, you were to pretty much see one big red candlestick going like this.

(25:50 - 26:15)
And what you know is that on the 30 minute timeframe, we shifted. This is where you enter the trade and then you can pretty much set and forget your way to success because the lower timeframe is confirming that it is going to continue the trend with the top that analysis of the overall timeframes. And you're probably asking yourself, what is this word set and forget? And how can you set and forget your way to success? Like, is that even possible? Well, that's what my students have been doing in the last three months.

(26:15 - 26:57)
They've been making anywhere from a thousand to a thousand five hundred dollars a week as a beginner set and forget trader where they're literally catching trades like this with me every single week on a call that I get with them and I explain to them my top two top three pairs that I trade for the week that had the clearest and most precise top ten analysis that give us the edge in the market and confirm to us that, hey, it makes more sense to sell at this moment than to buy simply because the overall timeframes are actually going down. Just hop onto the trend to the downside or all the timeframes are going up, hop on the trend to the upside. And if you don't know what set and forget is and you want to know more about it, make sure you hit the link in the description below.

(26:57 - 27:13)
I have a video there for you that explains to you exactly what set and forget is and how it's changed lives all around the world and lets traders make anywhere from a thousand to a thousand five hundred dollars a week as a beginner set and forget trader. So make sure you guys watch that video. The link is in description below.

(27:13 - 27:19)
I appreciate you guys watching this video all the way to the end. You want to see more videos like this. Make sure you hit that like and subscribe button.

(27:19 - 27:29)
And I actually have a video for you that explains to you precisely on what candlesticks are. So make sure you check it out in this section right here and I'll see you guys in the next video. Take it easy, guys.