(0:00 - 6:39)
In today's video, I'm going to share with you eight dividend stocks that pay me $660 per month. Now, a year ago, I made this exact same video, but my monthly dividends at the time were around $508 per month. So a lot of changes have happened, and I wanted to share those changes with you today, as well as go over the eight stocks. 

The dividend stocks in my portfolio are what I like to call sleep well at night stocks, or SWAN stocks for short. Essentially, they are good, stable companies with a history of paying dividends. And while I sleep, I generate passive returns, which is the best feeling that you can get. 

And stock number one today is Procter & Gamble, or P&G for short. P&G is one of the biggest American consumer good companies out there. And at the time of this recording, they pay a 2.52% dividend yield. 

And that means for every share of Procter & Gamble that you own, you'll get roughly $3.76 per year. 2.52% doesn't sound like a high yield, but the benchmark S&P 500 actually has a dividend yield of 1.58%. So it's much higher than the out there. What you'll actually find is that most safe dividend paying stocks pay between a 2% to 4% yield. 

And sometimes a higher yield is not necessarily better, which we'll talk about later in this video. Since last year, P&G was a dividend stock that I've added recently to my portfolio. And I did that for a multitude of reasons. 

The first reason being that it's a dividend king with 67 consecutive years of increasing their dividend. Second, I think that retailers like Target and Walmart this year are going to get squeezed, especially with the high cost of living and high inflation these days, as well as student loan repayments starting back up again. I think the average consumer is going to be really squeezed when it comes to buying retail goods. 

Procter & Gamble, however, they sell staple goods. So these are goods that are going to be needed no matter the economic environment. So if we actually take a look at a list of their current brands, they are brands like Bounty, Charmin paper towels, Head & Shoulders shampoo, Dawn for dish soap, and the list goes on. 

Lastly, they are diversified globally as well as in terms of their selection and product mix. So they actually offer five different segments of different types of products, including beauty, grooming, healthcare, family, and baby care, as well as fabric and home care, which means that investing in P&G is like investing in an index fund just for consumer staple type of goods. Now, Procter & Gamble is a huge brand. 

Yes, but an even bigger brand out there is JPMorgan Chase. This is the second stock on today's list. And basically, I've held this stock since last year's video when it was trading for about $110 per share. 

That means year to date, it's up around 30 to 40%, which is absolutely crazy. Now, while we can't count on that appreciation every single year, what we can count on is their dividend. And right now is paying a 2.89% dividend yield, which gets you about $4.20 per share of every share that you own of JPMorgan Chase. 

The main reason I like JPMorgan Chase is that they are the largest bank in the United States, as well as they have $495 billion in cash and cash equivalents on their balance sheet, which means that they are going to provide a huge sense of security for any of their shareholders. This year, the higher interest rate environment, it hasn't been that great for many companies, but in terms of JPMorgan Chase, it's actually benefited them a little bit because they can make some money on the interest rates that the Federal Reserve sets. Their net interest income this year has been growing every single quarter, and I don't really see that slowing down anytime soon because the Fed has signaled that they're going to hold rates steady at least until the end of 2024, if not early 2025. 

With some of the collapses of the smaller banks this year, like Silicon Valley Bank, it's really good to have a bank like JPMorgan, which has strong fundamentals, and that's not going to go anywhere. This is one of my favorite dividend stocks, and it's one of the biggest contributors to the $660 a month that I generate passively. Now, before we get into stock number three, I wanted to share with you guys that Webull is giving away between six to 12 free stocks whenever you sign up and make any deposit. 

I know that sounds crazy, six to 12 free stocks, that's a lot of stocks, but yes, it's true. Webull is an investing app where you can buy and sell stocks on, and it's also a registered broker dealer, and I personally use it to check in on some of my dividend stocks. As long as the link is down below in my description, the promotion will be active. 

I'm not sure how long it's going to be active for, so make sure to get it while you can, and I think it's one of the best promotions out there on the market right now. Stock number three is Home Depot. It's actually one of my favorite places to go, especially if you need a fiddle leaf fig plant. 

They actually have them pretty cheap there, and I just got one recently, but they also pay a $8.36 dividend per share for every share that you own every single year, which is 2.75% of a dividend yield. Home Depot is the largest home improvement retailer in the United States with over 2,000 stores in just America alone, with over $154 billion in revenue in the last 12 months. If we look at their revenue breakdown from this popular website, 4 Week MBA, we can actually see that their revenue stream is quite diversified across the different types of products pretty evenly. 

Funny enough, the indoor garden section is actually the largest revenue driver for Home Depot, so shout out to those fiddle leaf figs. I contributed to that. The other great thing about Home Depot's revenue breakdown is that half of that revenue comes from professional contractors versus the other half comes from do-it-yourself customers, so that means even if one segment is lagging behind, the other segment can bolster Home Depot's sales up. 

With a gross margin of 33% as well as strong cash flows, it's one of these companies that is going to be really stable and one of those companies that I like to call a swan, so you can sleep well at night knowing that you own it. Its counterpart is Lowe's, and that's also another great company to own as well. It's also a home improvement retailer, and both of these companies have actually outperformed the S&P 500 over the last decade. 

When it comes to Home Depot and Lowe's, there's not many other big box home improvement retailers in the United States, so what I like to think of is that these two combined have a really strong economic moat, something like Google does. Google owns the search market, so whenever you make a search online, you're usually using Google, which means that it has a strong economic moat, and I kind of see the going on with Home Depot. Now, another company with a strong economic moat out there is actually Coca-Cola. 

We all love and know Coca-Cola because of their premium drinks, but did you know that they also own other brands like Vitamin Water, Powerade, Fairlife, Smartwater, and Topo Chico? They currently have a dividend yield of 3.26%, so that means for every single share of Coca-Cola that you own, you'll get about $1.84 per year. Coca-Cola's main advantages are the fact that they have really strong branding, a consistent business, profit margins of over 17%, as well as the fact that they have a ton of pricing power over consumers. In an inflationary environment like the one that we are in now, it costs more to produce things, so if Coke wanted to raise the prices of their goods, they could increase them without having their demand suffer too much. 

I also own Pepsi in my portfolio, and I think both of these companies are really good to have in your portfolio because they sell goods that are always going to be needed no matter the economic conditions. They kind of operate like a consumer staples company, like Procter & Gamble, like we talked about earlier. Now, you'll notice that a lot of the stocks today have a lower dividend yield, somewhere between 2% and 4%, like I said earlier.

(6:39 - 8:33)
Stocks that tend to pay a high dividend, let's say 10% or more, that's something that should be raising alarm bells in your head because if they're paying that much of a dividend out to their shareholders, it means that they don't have enough money to reinvest in the business, and therefore their growth might be stunted. I'm not saying that all high yielders are bad stocks, but if you ever see a yield of 5, 6, 7, or even 10%, that's something you want to be aware of, and maybe do some research and be a little more cautious before you invest. A company that is the polar opposite of this with extremely low dividend yields is a company like Apple. 

Apple's been in my portfolio since day one, and while they do have a really low dividend yield of 0.55%, what I find is that as I continue to add to my Apple position, because I like to do that every time I get paid, I notice that the dividends are starting to add up. Right now, they pay around $0.96 per share of every Apple that you own every single year, and I almost didn't include it in today's list because it's not like a true dividend stock, but what I've noticed is that it is one of the biggest contributors to my $660 per month. I typically own it for capital appreciation reasons, but the fact that it pays a dividend is just like a really nice little bonus. 

With Apple, you can probably expect them to be within the top five companies in the world for the foreseeable future, even up to 20 or 30 years from now, and with their product offerings like the Apple Vision Pro that's going to be coming out, as well as the Apple Watch Ultra 2, they are trying to diversify their revenue mix. Surprisingly also, a large portion of Apple's revenue, up to 25% right now, is coming from things like services. It's been growing every single quarter, and services include things like music, movies, TV, the iTunes Store, App Store, etc. 

Alright, another dividend company that's been in my portfolio for quite a while is AbbVie. AbbVie is a biopharmaceutical company with a portfolio of drugs in different types of departments, like oncology, immunology, as well as neuroscience. The stock currently pays a 3.85% dividend yield at the time of this recording, which is around $5.92 per share of every single AbbVie that you own.

(8:33 - 9:43)
The biggest news from last year is that they actually lost their exclusive patent right to Humira because it expired, and so basically that was their best-selling drug at the time, but they still have a lot of robust other drugs in the pipeline to offer to the market. Financially, AbbVie has actually been handling this quite well, much better than expected, because some of their other drugs like Skyrizzy and Rinvoke are actually having their sales up almost 50% this year. A lot of analysts expected Humira to be a really big blow to the company's financials, but even the loss of that patent hasn't eroded the sales of AbbVie that much this year. 

I have this in my portfolio because it offers me some diversification from my other holdings, so right now it's the only pharmaceutical company that I own, and while it has been trading flat this year, I remain a little bit cautiously optimistic because if we actually look back a full year, it's up around 9%. They still do generate a ton of cash flow and have actually increased their revenues, so $24 billion in operating cash flow compared to $22.9 billion last year, but they do face many challenges that we've talked about. So out of all the stocks listed today, I'm probably most cautious on this one. 

I'm gonna see how things play out in the next few quarters to decide if I want to continue to hold it or not. Alright, the next stock is a stock that needs no introduction. It is called Kraft Heinz.

(9:43 - 9:54)
You probably have heard of it. They make ketchup, A1 steak sauce, mustard, and even Kool-Aid. They currently pay a dividend yield of around 4.64%, which equates to around $1.60 per share annually.

(9:54 - 10:25)
With net sales last year of $26.45 billion, it's no wonder that Warren Buffett still owns his original position of Kraft Heinz. In early 2019, he actually even told CNBC that he'd be happy to own the stock even 10 years from now. So Kraft Heinz is another one of those companies that, in my opinion, they offer consumer staples. 

I mean, seriously, I think it's a staple. If you saw how much ketchup I put on my fries as well as my burger, you would definitely think it's a consumer staple. Food-related goods will always be in demand because people have to eat, and even condiments are going to be in demand no matter the economic conditions out there.

(10:25 - 13:00)
This is probably one of the weaker dividend companies in my portfolio in terms of growth, so Kraft Heinz, while they are profitable, their profits don't usually translate to huge capital appreciation, which some investors are looking for. I'm not worried about their dividend, but if you are looking for a stock with more potential upside, then perhaps you want to stick to some of the other stocks on today's list. For now, I'm holding Kraft Heinz as my smallest position in my portfolio, and if things don't really look up in the next few quarters, I might actually sell them off. 

All right, I actually do have a bonus stock for you guys today, and that's going to be stock seven and a half, and that is ticker symbol VOO, which is the S&P 500 ETF by Vanguard. This fund buys a small percentage of every single stock that is in the S&P 500, and they actually do pay a dividend yield of around 1.5 to 1.6%. For every share of VOO that you own, you'll actually get $6.30 per share, which is pretty good for owning a well-diversified ETF. Every time I get paid, I put a little bit of that paycheck into VOO as well, and so it's just a little bit of a bonus for owning that ETF in terms of index fund or ETF investing. 

So even if you don't go for individual stocks in your portfolio, you can still get a dividend yield from an ETF like VOO, or Charles Schwab even has one that's called SCHD. It's their US Dividend Equity ETF, and it's actually one of the most popular dividend ETFs out there. Okay, so our final stock for today is Johnson & Johnson. 

This is another favorite of Warren Buffett's. It currently has a 3% dividend yield, which is $4.76 for every share that you own. Again, this is one of those companies where you will sleep well at night. 

They offer staples that they sell, so Tylenol, Band-Aid, Listerine, and even Aveeno lotion. You probably see a theme in today's videos. I like companies that are stable. 

They offer a product selection that is really good during economic uncertainty so that I don't really have to worry about them. J&J has also increased their dividends for 61 consecutive years, which means that they are also known as a dividend king. Its value stock has a strong cash position, and it's one of these companies that's going to do well even in the worst of recessions, so I have no problem owning this for the long term. 

All right, so how much money do you need to make $660 per month in dividends? Well, I want to tell you guys it is quite a lot. If you take the average dividend yield of 4%, you would actually need around $200,000 invested at a 4% dividend yield to get yourself around $8,000 per year, which is around $666 per month. Now, if this is discouraging to you, don't let it be discouraging because I've personally been investing in this portfolio for over 12 years now, and every time I get paid, I consistently invest into it. 

The harsh truth is that it does take some time to build up to, but as you build up and you start to see those dividends accumulate, it is one of the best feelings that you can get. I hope you enjoyed this video. Make sure to grab those 6 to 12 free stocks with the link down below.

(13:00 - 13:10)
As long as it's there, it's going to be active, and make sure to check out my next video on dividends, which I'll put right here or right here. All right, so I will probably see you in the next video. Thank you for watching. 

Have a great day.