(0:00 - 0:19)
That's right guys, you are using the wrong strategy and I'm gonna prove it to you in this video. I'm gonna also show you how you can do better very easily, but only for the ones who watch this video until the end. I'm gonna show you a couple of strategies. 

Two of them are very common. The chances high that you are using them and they are pretty bad. Check out this chart here.

(0:19 - 0:50)
You have three lines. Those lines represent the money that is in each portfolio, right? Each line belongs to a different strategy and we have the blue line, we have the black line and the red line. There are all three different strategies. 

Two of them you already know, they are quite common and the blue one is a special one and I will tell you all about it. But the question is, right, which of these lines, which of these portfolios would you rather one I have? Because they all started at the same time with the same amount of money as you can see here on the left side. But somehow one ended up with more money than the others.

(0:50 - 1:06)
And also one of them always had money even in the bear market while the other ones actually gave it back to the market. Now, this is called the equity line of the strategy. And unfortunately, TradingView does not offer you a simple way to turn on this line so you can see it.

(1:06 - 1:17)
But that's why you subscribe to this channel. I will give you a way to turn this on and to add it to every single strategy that you have access to. If you have access to the code, there is one line only that you just copy, paste, save.

(1:17 - 1:36)
And then you will have this line on any strategy that offers you the code, right? Very simple. And you should have access to this information because otherwise you're using strategies that do this with your portfolio, right? All of this in this video. And make sure to click the bell to not miss out on any new video that I'm launching.

(1:36 - 1:41)
And keep in mind, this is not financial advice. Crypto is risky. You can lose all of your money.

(1:41 - 1:56)
That's why I'm doing this channel to give you higher chances of success. And now let's get started. All right, guys, let's look at the chart and let's understand what can happen to your portfolio if you're using the wrong strategy and what can happen if you're using a proper strategy.

(1:56 - 2:18)
And by the way, there is a high probability that you are using a strategy that produces the red line or the black line, because those two lines, the portfolio lines belong to very popular strategies. At the end of the video, I will reveal which line belongs to which strategy. But first of all, let's understand how they impact your life and your profits.

(2:18 - 2:29)
And let's start by looking at how much money these strategies made. And for that, we need to understand where they started off. They all started off here at the same amount of money, roughly thirty five thousand dollars.

(2:30 - 2:47)
OK. And the black and the red strategy, they ended up now having one hundred seventy thousand roughly in the portfolio right now, while the blue strategy has nine hundred and six thousand dollars in the portfolio. That is a five X difference in portfolio value, guys.

(2:47 - 3:14)
OK, keep that in mind. Same time frame, just that one strategy is way higher up than the other one. Now, that is great. 

But that's not the only thing that matters, because if you are looking at what happened over time, you can see something very important. You can see that during the bear market, this strategy had money in the portfolio and it can be used for whatever you want. You can buy apartments, you can buy gold, you can buy jewelry for your partner or whatever you're buying.

(3:14 - 3:48)
OK, while the other two strategies, they were quite in a drawdown, because as you can see here, the strategies were basically in a drawdown of sixty seven percent. Whereas this strategy here was only in a drawdown of about twenty percent. Right. 

So taking out money from the blue strategy would have been easy. Right. So the money is not locked up. 

It can move. It can help you buy things and maybe invest even better in other assets during the bear market. But using these strategies here, it would be very tough mentally to take money out while the drawdown is so large, you would say, like, let's keep the money in.

(3:48 - 3:56)
Let's wait for a recovery. Right. So the problem here is not only that these strategies make less money, but also that you don't have access to the money while prices are cheap.

(3:56 - 4:05)
Now, keep that in mind. This is very important what I'm saying here. If prices are down, then most likely prices are down also for other type of assets, not just crypto.

(4:05 - 4:15)
OK. So if you have money during a time where everyone else does not have money, you can buy stuff cheap, right, because you have money. The other people need to make money.

(4:15 - 4:25)
They need to sell their stuff so you can negotiate. Right. But if you're using the wrong strategy and you're basically giving the profits pretty much back to the market, then you cannot take advantage of this.

(4:26 - 4:42)
And this is the important thing that I want to share with you here. So it's not only about having more money in the portfolio, yes, obviously, but also how did you get there? So money has to always work for you. Otherwise, it will work against you because of inflation and because of opportunity costs.

(4:42 - 4:48)
In the bear market, there is no reason to hold an asset, a crypto asset that goes down. It's a waste of purchasing power. Right.

(4:48 - 4:58)
You can take that and put it into better opportunities. And again, you have to have access to the money in order to be able to do that. Right.

(4:58 - 5:18)
So if you see a drop in your portfolio value like this or like this or even like this, right, then you know it's a bad strategy. OK, I think now you get it right. But before we continue and before I reveal which equity line belongs to which strategy, let me know which strategy you would like to have the blue one, the red one and the black one.

(5:18 - 5:29)
And also let me know down in the comments which line belongs to which strategy. What do you think? Which one it is? And I'm asking you this for two reasons. First reason I want to know that you pay attention.

(5:29 - 5:39)
And second reason is I need more comments on my videos. So go down below and let me know. OK, let's reveal the first strategy that belongs to the red line.

(5:40 - 5:51)
What do you think is the red line about which strategy created the red line? Well, drumroll, please. We have the hodl strategy. The hodl strategy is the red line.

(5:51 - 6:06)
And it made 369 percent profit since here 2018 and with a 76 percent max drawdown. So it's anyway a horrible strategy, full waste of time. And also I have another video explaining that I will link it up top.

(6:07 - 6:15)
But as you can see, here is the worst of all of these three strategies because it was in a high drawdown for many years. Right. So this is pretty bad.

(6:15 - 6:30)
OK, so even the other strategy, the black one is better than the hodl strategies. Hodl strategy is really the worst thing you can do. And the reason is simply it does not protect you from drawdown and it does not have a sell signal to protect you from even the asset going to zero.

(6:30 - 6:38)
So it's a waste of time. Like whoever tells you to use hodl, you should immediately unfollow them. OK, because mathematically it makes absolutely no sense.

(6:39 - 6:46)
All right, cool. So for individual assets, not for indices, indices. Yes, but individual assets. 

No. OK, cool. Now let's go to the next strategy.

(6:47 - 7:02)
What is the black line all about? And is it better? Well, it is a bit better because you can see here it protects the portfolio a bit better because they all start with the same amount of money. Well, the red strategy, the hodl strategy goes way down and you have way less money than before for a while. And then it catches up.

(7:02 - 7:12)
But the black strategy always better is actually always better than the red strategy. But which strategy is that? Well, let me show you. It is the DCA strategy.

(7:12 - 7:15)
The DCA strategy is the black line. Right. It's OK.

(7:15 - 7:30)
It's still not the best or anything, but it's better than the hodl strategy. OK. And I have like I said, I have a video about these two and why they are absolutely useless for individual assets, which is what we're doing in crypto, right? We're buying individual assets.

(7:30 - 7:46)
So for those type of investments, these strategies are the worst performing strategies that you can use the worst mathematically, the worst. OK. And that's why you subscribe to this channel, because I'm showing you this stuff like if you go to other channels, they tell you use DCA like no.

(7:46 - 7:47)
OK. Oh, my God. Right.

(7:48 - 8:07)
Because DCA, it's way worse than the blue one. And the blue one is quite easy to achieve. All right. 

So if you're listening to other channels and they tell you to use hodl or DCA, I mean, listen, after this video, in my opinion, you should run away because mathematically it's bad advice. OK. Having said that, this is not financial advice either.

(8:07 - 8:09)
Right. You can do whatever you want. Right.

(8:09 - 8:17)
I'm just showing you the facts. But let's go back to the chart and also look at the net profit of this strategy of the DCA one. So we have three hundred eighty five percent profit.

(8:17 - 8:23)
A bit better than the other one. We have a max drawdown of only thirteen point six. So that's way better than hodl.

(8:23 - 8:29)
OK, like way better. And also because now the price of Bitcoin is quite high. The percent profitable trades is also very high.

(8:29 - 8:36)
But that really depends on when you are looking right. If you are in the bear market, then most of these trades are negative. So that number will be way lower.

(8:36 - 8:51)
But for right now, when I'm making this video, that is what it is. OK, let's get rid of these squiggles here. And now let's finally reveal what is the blue line about? What type of strategy is that? And that blue line is created by one of my strategies.

(8:51 - 9:03)
But you don't really need my strategy. By the way, this is a trend following strategy. I will give you a free trend following strategy at the end of the video that produces pretty much this line kind of it has a higher drawdown.

(9:03 - 9:15)
But still, you can do way better than DCA and hodl with a fully free strategy. OK, and I wonder why nobody told you this before. Interesting, right? Again, that's why you subscribe to this channel.

(9:15 - 9:35)
So let me show you this strategy had a profit of two thousand four hundred percent since the same time as all the others with a drawdown of 15, making massive amount of profit compared to the others. And as you have seen before, keeping your money protected from large drawdowns. OK, any trend following strategy is better than DCA and hodl.

(9:36 - 9:55)
And is it hard to use them? No, especially not if you subscribe to this freaking channel, because that's exactly what I'm talking about for a long time already. OK, so now let me show you the strategy that you can start using today. OK, guys, I've added a new strategy to the chart and the blue line now belongs to the breakout trend follower strategy.

(9:56 - 10:07)
And the black and the red line are the same strategies as before. We have the hodl and the DCA, right? Exactly the same as before. And as you can see, the blue line is better than the other two.

(10:07 - 10:15)
And fun fact, this breakout trend follower strategy is completely free. I have a link down below in the video description. It's not for me.

(10:15 - 10:24)
I just found it on Tradingview. And that's what I'm saying. It's so easy to perform better than the typical strategies.

(10:24 - 10:39)
And because you watch this channel, you have this benefit of me sharing free strategies with you. OK, so so check this out. This strategy made a profit of 1,600 percent on Bitcoin since the same time here, 2018 and 26 percent max drawdown, 50 percent profitable trades.

(10:40 - 10:54)
It's OK, actually, right? It's a good strategy, especially for a fully free strategy. OK, this is amazing anyway. So you see what I'm saying now, how did I get this equity line, the blue line into this strategy because the strategy itself doesn't have it.

(10:54 - 11:07)
OK, and I promised you at the beginning of the video, I will show you how to do that. Now, first of all, I have the strategy here somewhere, and it's called breakout trend follower here, right? This is the original one. And you see here, this icon, this is the code icon.

(11:07 - 11:20)
So I can click on it to get the code of that strategy. When I click on it, it will actually say that is a read only script, of course, because it's not my code, but you can create a working copy. So click on that. 

Right. And then you can go way down. You don't have to edit anything else.

(11:20 - 11:28)
You can just go way down and you can paste this line. And this line I will also put down in the video description. This will simply plot this equity line.

(11:28 - 11:32)
OK. And now you just have to save it. You give it some name.

(11:32 - 11:39)
So let's say so I put test here. Right. So you just save it and then you have to click on Add to Chart.

(11:39 - 11:43)
Right. Add to chart. You click on that and then boom, it appears on your chart.

(11:43 - 11:50)
OK. And yeah, it looks crazy now because now I have it twice. And by the way, let me remove my version here because that version was done before.

(11:51 - 12:04)
If you want to have less clutter on your chart, simply edit the strategy in the settings and go to the style and remove signal labels and quantity. And then simply you can close this as well. And now it looks a bit better.

(12:04 - 12:28)
And by the way, the strategies have to start with the same amount of money because otherwise you can't really compare. And this was thirty five thousand one hundred. OK. 

And this is how I get them to start at the exact same point in when it comes to the money that they have available. And then they can be compared with each other. OK. 

So basically you can just take this strategy and use it right now. I mean, today. Right.

(12:28 - 12:35)
And as a mega bonus on top, you can fully automate the buy and sell signals of the strategy. Right. As you can see here, you have these buy and sell signals here.

(12:35 - 12:42)
You can take them right. The blue ones are the buy signals here and the pink ones are the sell signals. And this is how you can get the back test.

(12:42 - 12:55)
This is how you can see all the trades here and everything. But you can take all of these trades. You can automatically send all of these trades to a trading platform called Signum, and that will automatically execute the trades on your exchange.

(12:55 - 13:05)
So this is Signum. Go and create an account and you can then take the strategy from trading view and you can tell Signum how to place the orders. And then you can connect Signum to your exchange.

(13:05 - 13:15)
And pretty much basically what's happening is the strategy is executing the trades. But they will also happen for you with your money. So you don't even have to click the button to buy and sell when the strategy does it.

(13:15 - 13:24)
Instead, it's fully automatic. And why am I telling you this? Because my freaking channel is called Michael Automates. OK, because with automation, you can better stick to the strategy.

(13:25 - 13:29)
Less emotions, less manual mistakes. Right. So do that.

(13:29 - 13:40)
And listen, if this video didn't give you massive value, then just I don't know. OK, let me know down in the comments how I could add even more value to your life, because I don't know. OK, I think this is huge and massive and amazing.

(13:40 - 13:50)
But there is one thing, one more thing right that I can add to your life. But that's only when you have a portfolio that is worth more than 10K. That is basically auto trading dot VIP.

(13:50 - 14:24)
And this is my personal masterclass where I have all the knowledge that I possess about trading strategies, automation in this masterclass. And I give access to my strategies. Right. 

One of the strategies you've seen in the chart today, the blue line that you've seen most of the time is from this particular strategy here. Right. So go to this page, click on apply for access if you want to get access to this masterclass. 

Yes, it's not cheap. But if you have a bigger portfolio, this is what you need, in my opinion, because you don't want to mess around. You want to have the best education, the best strategies, the best community possible to protect your portfolio and grow that portfolio.

(14:24 - 14:31)
Right. Having said all of that, make sure to destroy the like button, subscribe to the channel. And this is the next video you should watch.

(14:35 - 14:51)
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh