(0:00 - 0:17)
Our economy is going to change in 2025, and in this video, I want to show you how you can find the investment opportunities that most people are overlooking. Take a look. President-elect Trump is entering the White House in January, and he wants to make some sweeping changes to our government and economic policy.

(0:17 - 0:26)
To be clear, the goal in this video is not to talk politics. There's enough people that do that already. The goal in this video is to show you how these changes will create a unique investment opportunity.

(0:26 - 0:47)
Let me show you why this matters. In 2024, the United States economy is about $28 trillion big. This is our GDP. 

GDP is a measure of all spending that happens in our economy. Every smart investor wants to own a piece of this. More specifically, they want to own a piece of where the economy is moving because that's where you're going to see the most growth with your investments.

(0:48 - 1:15)
Most people understand that. But what many people don't understand is that the largest spender in our economy is not you and me. It's not corporations. 

It's the government. So when you have a new president that comes with new economic policies, which changes how money moves. But now when you have a president like Trump coming in, who's proposing big sweeping changes like deporting millions of illegal immigrants, or slapping tariffs on China, or passing big tax breaks, somebody is going to be making money off of these changes.

(1:15 - 1:30)
And you want to know a little secret? Wall Street is going to find a way to profit off of whoever's in the White House by studying how the economy is going to change. But the average person has no idea how to do that until now, because that's what I'm going to be showing you through this video. So make sure you stick with me until the end.

(1:30 - 1:42)
And just around the same page, there might be some topics that make you feel not so good. And what I want you to understand as an investor, that when you make an investment decisions, it has to be three pieces of criteria. Number one, this investment has to be legal.

(1:43 - 1:52)
Number two, it has to be financially sound, meaning hopefully you'll make some money. And number three, it has to make moral sense. This moral compass is going to be subjective to you.

(1:53 - 2:11)
I'm not going to tell you what's morally right for you or not, because I have my own moral compass, and there are certain things that I refuse to invest in. My goal is to show you what's happening. I want to show you where the money is moving, that way you can make your own decisions based off of this triangle right here, because you will have a very different moral compass than me.

(2:11 - 2:23)
Seven of the largest proposals that President-elect Trump has talked about up until now are number one, doing mass deportations. Number two, slapping tariffs on many countries. Number three, investing in the military.

(2:23 - 2:33)
Number four, deregulating financial service companies. Number five, investing in space exploration. Number six, deregulating the oil and gas industry.

(2:33 - 2:46)
And number seven, providing some big tax cuts. Now what I want to do is go through each one of these and talk about how the money will move if this gets passed, and how this can create a unique investment opportunity for you. Now let me remind you of a couple of things.

(2:46 - 2:56)
Number one, investing is risky. You are never guaranteed to make money when you invest. In fact, you will lose money at some point, so make sure you always do your own due diligence, and never blindly trust a random guy on YouTube.

(2:56 - 3:19)
And of course, if you are investing your money as a passive investor, then you don't need to worry about the changes that are happening in the White House, because if you were just investing your money into something like the S&P 500, then all you do is A, B, B. Always be buying. You buy when markets are up, you buy when markets are down, because the reality is we will see another recession, we will see a market crash. When? Nobody knows.

(3:19 - 3:28)
But the way you win as a passive investor is you always be buying. You buy when markets are up, when markets are down, and you just let the markets do their thing. So if that's what you're doing, you can ignore this video.

(3:28 - 4:04)
But if you want to be more involved with your investments, and you want to find more active investments, not trades, that's what I'm going to be talking about here. But understand that that comes with more risk, more potential returns, but it's going to require you to be a little bit more involved with your investments, because the reality is we can talk about what's going to happen here, but if we see a recession, then all of this can go down as well. This is where you have to be a smart investor, and the things that I'm going to focus on for this video are the changes that Trump is proposing in these seven different areas, and how this can create a shift with money, but that doesn't always mean that these stocks are going to just shoot up, because there's a lot of other factors that can impact the stock market.

(4:04 - 4:28)
It's no surprise that Trump has been talking about doing mass deportations, but do you know who these mass deportations benefit from a business sense? Private prisons. Let me read you what NBC News had to say about this. And if you're wondering why private prison companies love the idea of doing mass deportations, well, read this from Investor Business Daily.

(4:40 - 4:56)
I'm going to say this one more time. You have to decide what's morally right for you. My job in this video is to show you what's happening financially, because we're going to see a lot of changes in our economy as President-elect Trump enters the White House, but this is where you have to understand what really makes a good investment decision.

(4:57 - 5:29)
This goes on to number two with tariffs. How does that potentially create an investment opportunity? Now, before we go too deep into tariffs, I want to remind you that if you are interested in learning more about how you can really build your wealth in 2025 in this changing economy, I'm hosting a free and live and virtual workshop on January 7th, where I'm going to show you how you can systemize your money to build wealth, how you can find unique investment opportunities, and how you can actually research those investment opportunities. How do you actually research a stock? I'm going to be going over all of these things on my free and live and virtual workshop on January 7th.

(5:30 - 5:44)
I'm going to do it twice on the 7th, once in the morning at 10.30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time, and then again in the evening at 8.00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. It's completely free, but you do have to register because there's a limited number of people that can actually join me live. So if you'd like to join me, it's on January 7th.

(5:44 - 6:01)
We have two different times, and if you'd like to register, all you got to do is click the link down in the description below. Remember, a tariff is a tax. So if I'm Nike or Ford or Walmart, and I'm buying things from China, well, now there might be an additional, let's call it 25% tax on those items to come into the United States.

(6:01 - 6:28)
So if I'm Nike, and I'm buying something from China, it might cost me 25% more money in order to pay for that product. And that could mean a few things for Nike. That could mean, A, I'm going to sell my stuff for 25% more to make up for this higher cost, or B, it might mean that I will shrink my profit margins as Nike to eat up this additional cost, or it might mean, 3, I move my manufacturing in order to avoid this cost.

(6:28 - 6:38)
I could potentially move my manufacturing here to the United States or a different country. Now, it's hard to say what's going to happen because, of course, this is just a proposal. We have no idea what's actually going to get passed.

(6:38 - 6:52)
But what we do know is if manufacturing does come back into the United States, there's going to be certain industries that benefit. I mean, if manufacturing comes back into the United States, that could mean that more manufacturing plants have to be built. That could benefit those real estate companies.

(6:52 - 7:28)
If more manufacturing comes back into the United States, that could mean that railroads would benefit because they'd have to transport products from one plant to the other inside of the United States. In fact, read this. So if tariffs get passed, and if those tariffs encourage companies to bring their manufacturing back into the United States, that could then benefit companies like railroads, who then have to transport products between one plant and the other.

(7:28 - 7:44)
Again, we don't know what's going to get passed until it actually gets passed. But this is the way that I want you to think, is understanding when these decisions happen, where does the money move? Now, let's talk about number three, investing in the military. During Trump's campaign, he talked about investing in the military here in the United States.

(7:44 - 7:55)
But what you have to remember is that the military has goods that are produced by companies. So let's play through this scenario. We're investing in the military, which means we have more people practicing shooting guns.

(7:55 - 7:59)
More people are shooting bullets. More people are driving tanks. More people are flying in these fighter jets.

(8:00 - 8:18)
Well, all of these things have to be produced by somebody. They're not produced by the government, which means that some of this government spending in our economy could potentially go more to those companies that are producing all these products. And we can take a look online to see some of the top defense companies in the world, and many of them are in the United States, like you can see over here.

(8:18 - 8:35)
So if the government actually invests in the military, they could potentially give more and larger contracts to some of these defense contractors. The largest defense contractor in the world is Lockheed Martin, which is a United States-based company, also trades on the stock market. And so they could potentially be getting some of those contracts.

(8:35 - 8:40)
But again, do we know for sure? No. We don't know what's going to get passed. We don't know what that company would get.

(8:40 - 8:53)
And we don't know if the company manages their cash wrong and does what Boeing does and just runs their company to the ground. This is where your financial research comes into play. My goal is to show you how money could potentially be moving depending on Trump's proposals.

(8:54 - 9:16)
This brings us to number four, much more aligned with the financial space, which is Trump has talked pretty openly about deregulating the financial service industries, which essentially means deregulating Wall Street. Now, regulations in general make doing business a little bit more difficult because they create rules, more rules, more difficulties. Now, those rules are generally in place to protect consumers, but sometimes they can also hurt the businesses.

(9:16 - 9:38)
And this is where what Trump is saying is he wants to roll back some of these regulations to make it easier for these businesses, banks, investment institutions, hedge funds to potentially do more business, which some people are concerned that it could create a bigger bubble. But that's why you want to work on your financial education and making sure that you're protected for anything that could happen. Let me read you a quote from S&P Global.

(9:38 - 10:09)
Investors bid up bank stocks following President-elect Donald Trump's victory in the 2024 presidential election. The rally was immediate and widespread as the market expects less severe government regulation starting in 2025, including a more supportive regime for approving mergers and acquisitions. That means we have a lot of investors that are hoping that this gets passed, that the financial service industries are going to be deregulated to make it easier for Wall Street companies, banking institutions, investment institutions to hopefully make more money.

(10:10 - 10:28)
Now, of course, we don't know what's going to get passed until it actually gets passed. I'll be covering that here and on Market Briefs, which is my free financial newsletter. But this is where you want to understand if this does happen, what does that mean? It can make it easier for these investment institutions to operate their business, which could make it easier for them to drive up their revenues, which could impact their profitability.

(10:28 - 10:53)
This brings us to number five, investing in space exploration. And the way that we can get insight here is by taking a look at Trump's first term where he began the Space Force as a way to invest in space and space exploration. And based off of some of the talks that Trump has given over the last number of months, many people are excited and hoping that Trump is going to continue this investment into the space and space exploration and the companies that are involved in space stuff.

(10:53 - 11:18)
In fact, let me read you what CNBC had to say after Trump won the election in regards to space exploration. This past week, right after the election, saw several pure play space stocks rally. Just this week, we saw Rocket Lab up 41 percent, Intuitive Machines up 28 percent, Spire Global up 26 percent, Planet Labs up 16 percent, Redwire up 15 percent, and AST Space Mobile up 10 percent.

(11:19 - 11:36)
I hope you start to see why I'm always being cautious with the things that I say, because there's a lot of speculation here, because we don't know exactly what's going to get passed and we don't know to what extent it's going to get passed. But a lot of investors are excited about the idea of space exploration potentially happening after Trump is in the White House. Again, we don't know what's going to happen until it happens.

(11:36 - 11:57)
But if this is something you're interested in, it's something you may want to pay attention to to create a potential investment opportunity. Which brings us to number six, deregulating oil and gas, which is something that Trump has been talking about pretty openly, about changing the energy industry here in the United States. Let me read you what CNBC had to say about Trump's proposal to deregulate oil and gas here in the United States.

(11:57 - 12:28)
Increasing liquified natural gas exports and leasing more federal land for drilling are at the top of the oil and gas industry's wish list from Trump's second term. Now, I'm not an expert when it comes to the oil and gas industry, but what we do know is that people in the oil and gas industry are generally in favor of Trump's proposals to deregulate the oil and gas industry, because what we do know is deregulations, again, generally make doing business easier. They allow the companies to do more business, to do more stuff, and in this case, it's probably drilling more gas.

(12:28 - 12:46)
In fact, let me read you what Wall Street Journal had to say about this. The title is Trump's Energy Secretary Preaches the Benefits of Climate Change. And if you scroll down, what you see is that Trump's Energy Secretary pick is fracking CEO Chris Wright, who points to positive changes produced by global warming in contrast with what some oil giants say.

(12:46 - 13:13)
So what does all this mean? Well, it seems like it's not good news for renewable energies, and it seems like this would be good news for companies that are involved with oil and gas. Now, I hope that you can see that my goal with this video isn't to tell you what to believe or to tell you what's right, but rather to tell you what's going on, that way you can be a smarter investor and understand how the system works, because now you have to understand how tax cuts can impact your investments. Now, while we don't know Trump's tax proposal, what we do know is that he's been talking about cutting taxes.

(13:13 - 13:38)
And according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, bigger tax cuts generally lead to more stock buybacks. While the corporate tax cut hasn't done much to enhance the well-being of workers, it has fueled a large increase in corporate stock buybacks. A corporate stock buyback is when a company takes the cash out of their bank account, or maybe they use debt or other forms of dollars, but they take this money and then they use this money to buy back their own stock.

(13:39 - 13:58)
And the reason why they do this is to reduce the supply of stock available, which then artificially, generally inflates the price of their stock. Or in simple English, a company does a stock buyback to increase the price of their stock. Now, are stock buybacks good for the company? Well, generally, no, they don't really do much for the company except increase the valuation of the company or the stock.

(13:58 - 14:24)
Are stock buybacks good for the economy? Well, not particularly, except the sense that investors become wealthier, and maybe that means that they'll use this more wealth to spend more money in the economy, which I guess could indirectly benefit the economy in that way. Are stock buybacks good for employees in a company? Well, not necessarily, unless an employee owns stock in a company, because otherwise it doesn't really benefit them. Are stock buybacks good for your investment in the short term? Yes, because they can help the stock price go up.

(14:24 - 14:36)
So a stock buyback is kind of like a dividend. A dividend is when a company takes money out of their bank account and they give it away to shareholders in the form of a check, or money being deposited in your brokerage account. A stock buyback is a similar concept.

(14:36 - 14:50)
A company takes the money out of their bank account and then they just buy back their own stock to make your stock more valuable. It's good for the investor, but doesn't really do much for anybody else. But this is where, of course, I want you to understand the entire scope of this, because, of course, stock buybacks have a risk as well.

(14:50 - 15:21)
Because if a company empties their bank account during the stock buyback, that could put them up for potential risks in the future, because those stock buybacks do not actually create any real value for the company. For example, you might remember, in 2019, Delta did a huge stock buyback where they spent billions of dollars buying up their own stock, which helped inflate the stock price. And then came 2020, the pandemic hit, nobody's flying, and then Delta had to ask for a multi-billion dollar bailout from taxpayers because they no longer had money to pay their employees.

(15:21 - 15:49)
So again, we don't know exactly what's going to happen with tax cuts, but if we do start to see some big corporate tax cuts that could create an increase in stock buybacks, which could create a short-term benefit for those companies that are doing those buybacks. This is why I say it is so important for you to be financially educated, because most people are operating in this economic system on a motion instead of actually understanding how our economic system works. And the reality is, this economic system that we live in is designed to benefit investors.

(15:49 - 15:57)
Now you can hate it or love it, that really doesn't matter. I want you to understand it, that we can find the opportunity to build wealth. Now again, all of these things create risk.

(15:58 - 16:14)
We have no idea what's going to happen in 2025 or 2026. I mean, even if one of these things get passed, we could see a recession causing the entire market to go down, even if money is moving into one of these directions. This is why I want you to be a financially savvy investor and a financially sophisticated investor, which means understanding your strategy.

(16:14 - 16:31)
Because if you are not the type of person that can manage your psychology through a market crash, through a recession, then you don't have to worry about all of this. Instead, do what I said in the beginning of the video, which is A, B, B. Always be buying. You find a broad basket fund.

(16:31 - 16:35)
Maybe it's the total stock market. Maybe it's the S&P 500. Maybe it's the Dow Jones.

(16:36 - 16:44)
You find a broad basket fund, and then you just A, B, B. You don't worry about what's happening in the White House. You don't worry about what's happening in the economy. You don't worry about what's happening in the stock market.

(16:44 - 16:47)
You don't worry about the weather. You don't care about what day it is. You just keep buying.

(16:47 - 17:02)
Every week, every two weeks, every month, you just keep buying no matter what. And if you do this for the next 10, 20, 30 years, you will build wealth, because we have seen the stock market go up by around 10% a year for the last 100 years on average. Does that mean that the stock market always goes up? No.

(17:02 - 17:16)
We've seen about 16 recessions over the last century. And the problem is many people are going about this economy, going about this stock market, thinking that things are just going to continue going up forever. That's a very dangerous way to think, because we will see a downturn.

(17:17 - 17:23)
And when the downturn happens, a lot of people are going to panic. A lot of people are going to be blindsided. But I want you to be able to find the opportunity.

(17:24 - 17:29)
And that requires you to understand the strategy. If this is your game, you just keep buying. You don't change it.

(17:30 - 17:42)
If you want to be a little more involved, well, then you can look for where money is moving that way you can find a little bit more of a niche opportunity. Again, more risk, more potential return. But this is where your research and your financial education becomes very valuable.

(17:42 - 17:58)
Again, if you want to join me on my free workshop on January 7th, I'm going to be walking you through how you can create an investment system, how you can do the research, how you can find unique investment opportunities. I have that link for you down in the description. And if you want to know how you can stay up to date on what's happening in the markets, when it's happening, Market Briefs is another free resource that I have for you.

(17:58 - 18:08)
I also have that link for you down in the description as well. This long-term debt cycle, if it happens every 50 to 100 years, you might only live through one. We've seen how these short-term debt cycle recessions work.

(18:08 - 18:21)
We saw it happen with 2008 with the great financial crisis. So the question you're going to naturally have is, where are we on this long-term debt cycle now? Back in 2019, Ray Dalio said that we are very late in this debt cycle. So what does very late mean?