(0:00 - 0:52)
Good afternoon everyone. In this video we're going to build some SPX trades for monthly expiration pins and we're going to do so by analyzing gamma exposure and dealer flows. By the end of this video we'll craft two different trade ideas. 

Each one is going to be a low risk trade idea. One is risking $30, the other is risking $80 and in both cases we're looking to make more than $800. The whole idea of this low risk high reward trade is to analyze what is the market's underlying gamma exposure for this February's monthly expiration and take advantage of that information by putting on some low risk trades where you're okay losing if the trade doesn't work out but if you win you get a disproportionate reward for taking on this risk.

(0:53 - 3:07)
Now to understand gamma exposure we need to first understand the gamma piece of this. Here's a quick overview of what gamma is but I would recommend doing a deeper dive if this is something you find interesting. Now you've probably heard of the concept of delta. 

If you trade options you've most definitely heard of delta because you're purchasing whatever delta strike price option that you typically tend to purchase and you've heard it measured in deltas. Delta measures the change in the actual options price for each plus or minus $1 move in the underlying. So say you have Apple for example, for each plus or minus $1 move that Apple moves the delta tells you how much that option will move. 

So say a delta 50 options will move $50 for every plus or minus $1 move. Now in this case you also have to measure that the delta today is not going to be the same as the delta tomorrow. You have this concept called delta decay and the delta changes. 

Now the rate at which this delta changes is measured through gamma. Gamma measures the change in the options delta for each plus or minus $1 stock move. Now once you aggregate this gamma data across the same strike but the different expirations you can then create this concept called gamma exposure. 

You're essentially summing up all of the data and you're then trying to figure out is this gamma exposure, the net gamma exposure positive or is the net gamma exposure negative. Now a net gamma exposure being positive would imply the following. If the net gamma exposure is positive then we know that we should expect less volatility. 

Market makers, options market makers have sold options at whatever those strike prices are and it's in their best interest to essentially keep price fluctuating and to be able to collect all of this premium that they've sold to retail traders who have purchased these options. This is your typical scenario that you've seen. In periods like this at near these strike prices it's trades like the mean reversion trades, a lot of the choppy market trades that work exceptionally well and if you keep trying to trade trends during when prices near these strikes you'll find that those trend following trades fail a lot more frequently.

(3:08 - 12:24)
Now on the flip side if net gamma exposure is negative then we should be expecting a lot more volatility as price gravitates towards that particular strike price and a lot more directional moves. The reason for this is if our net gamma exposure is negative then a lot of the retail traders have sold the options and we actually have the options market makers who have purchased those options. It's in their best interest to keep price away from whatever that strike is in which they've purchased these options. 

So say that strike might be let's just use an example of $60 then if price came exactly to $60 all of that premium that they have purchased would be eradicated. Instead they want to get price away from $60 as quickly as they can so this option is actually worth something to them. So that's how gamma exposure can start to become useful and this is a very high level overview but you'll see how this all ties in. 

Now I tried to sum this up in a easy to read table maybe you find this useful. If the net gamma exposure is positive then we know that dealers are incentivized to reduce the volatility. It's periods in this where you'll see a lot of choppy and range bound price action and as a result you want to take advantage of these sorts of setups. 

Mean reversion setups, volatility box reversal setups, the fade setup works really well here. That's because you're taking advantage of not just a volatility edge but you also have gamma exposure and really big money on your side here as well. Selling spreads and condors in this, joining the options market makers and selling the premium is usually a good strategy. 

Now on the flip side if you have negative gamma exposure then you're looking for a lot more volatility and greater swings as price approaches whatever that strike price is because dealers want to get price way the heck away from whatever that negative volatility is. In periods like this buying mispriced inexpensive options think out of the money calls for example make a lot of sense because you start to actually see a lot of these crazy directional moves. Also during this period the opening range breakout setup works really well because you start to see the crazy movements, momentum base setups. 

So this is a quick way of how you can use gamma and gamma exposure to make slightly smarter options decisions. But now let's try and actually apply this on SPX. This Friday is monthly expiration and I want to try and see where does big money have their interests in the underlying market. 

Where do they want the market to go? Where do they want to take the flow? Now this is a chart of the gamma exposure by strike and this is a free resource. I've left the resource link in the description box below it's bar chart dot com. In the free version I think they choose the strikes where you get to see just the near dated months. 

So right now you get to see February which works out perfectly because that's four days from now. So with February and they've aggregated the data for us let's take a look at where we see the larger spikes here. So let me remove the expiration and let's start to analyze each strike. 

So I see three spikes the first at the 6100 strike where we have positive net gamma exposure we can see that here positive plus 4.061. Second strike 6150 positive net gamma exposure here as well and then the 6200 strike positive net gamma exposure here as well. So with all three of these strikes 6150 is the one that seems to be the biggest then 6100 and then 6200. Current price is at 6114 so we're right in between these two periods of our high gamma exposure areas. 

Now take a look at where this gamma exposure goes negative and that's near the 6050 price mark which tells us that as price gets closer and closer to 6050 we would expect to see dealers start to get a little bit more aggressive in getting price back up towards the 6100 mark. So 6050 is a place where I would expect to see near term support that's the first place where our net gamma goes negative and if you were to load in the full chart here you would be able to see the 6000 strike excuse me which is also the large negative gamma exposure strike where I would expect to see a lot of support but 6050 is where it first goes negative. So before I move to the next slide let me sum that up so 6000 which is not even on this chart is where we have a large negative gamma exposure strike bar just like we see here. 

6050 where we start to see this go negative then we have 6100, 6150 and 6200. Out of these three 6150 is the strike with the greatest gamma exposure all three are positive then we have 6100 and then we have 6200. Now let's bring this together on a chart of SPX. 

I've drawn out all four levels price currently 6114 we have that 6100, 6150 and 6200 all three of these are positive gamma exposures suggesting that as we're in this we would expect to see choppy price action which is what I think we're likely to see. 6050 is down here which is the first place that gamma exposure goes negative so as we approach there I would expect to see dealers very aggressively picking price action back up so place of support. So 6050 if we get there looking to aggressively buy maybe even some out of the money calls expiring this week. 

Monthly expiration is this week and now we bring back in the gamma so we have 6100, 6150 both are potential pins 6100 is closer more in the money to where price is 6150 would be a new high but still just a stone's throw away. Now let's use all of this to analyze the options chain and craft some trades this is where it starts to get a little bit more fun and we get our hands a little bit dirty. Now we had the 6100 strike excuse me and if we take a look at the open interest here notice how the open interest stands out this is the largest open interest for our Feb expiration series and the sum of the open interest there almost 53,000 contracts. 

The next strike we have 6150 and we take a look at the open interest here almost 30,000 contracts so a lot of open interest but not as much as 6100. Now we take this information and let's come into the analyze tab. In the analyze tab I've built in two separate trades here and both of these trades are butterflies. 

Now before we take a look at anything more with these butterflies notice the middle strikes. The middle strikes are the two prices that we've been looking at where we have the greatest gamma exposure and it's also where we're looking to sell that premium. Positive gamma exposure we're looking to join the option market makers who have sold options near that strike price so 6100, 6150. 

Now I've made these butterflies very narrow they're just $10 wide which is how we're able to keep the cost so low. The 6100 is $30 the 6150 is currently $80. In both cases your reward is greater than $800. 

Take a look at the box down here if you were to get the pin at the exact prices which is why we're putting on these trades in the first place. Now if price does dip below to $60.50 then you might consider buying the 6100 call as the out of the money call where you're looking for price to gravitate towards but if you do buy that call keep in mind you're going against what is really the big money position here so all I'm looking to do is take advantage of that quick burst and very quickly get out before expiration. It's just 6100 is where there's a lot of liquidity. 

So these two butterflies are my two favorite trades and they're the ones that look a little bit more practical. If we get closer to that $60.50 $60.55 mark excuse me then I'm looking to aggressively use this as a support zone and try and use that 6100 which is where I still think there's a lot of open interest where price is likely to gravitate towards into the expiration. So now if we summarize everything that we covered in this video we started our conversation by first understanding what is gamma and understanding why gamma exposure is useful. 

Then we moved on to taking a look at this free graph of the SPX gamma exposure for this Friday's expiration. It includes two other expiration dates as well and we made note of all of the key levels where we thought price was likely to react around and we then plotted those on our chart and once we plotted that we used the option chain to build two separate butterfly positions each of which is fairly low risk but has a disproportionately high reward associated with it and all of these stem from where we think big money has their interest for expiration three days from now. And for all volatility box traders I'm looking at those mean reversion fade setups this week. 

Maybe I might make a video talking about a few of those setups this week. I'll also be curious if you create your own options butterfly position or maybe a different position using all the information that might be even better than the trades that I've discussed in this video. Take care everyone and I'll see you in our next update.