(0:00 - 0:19)
I wanna share with you the 3 high win rate scalping strategies that will get you to making your first 10k per month. And if you have a small trading account, these strategies will be perfect for you. The first step is to identify your supply and demand zones.

(0:19 - 0:30)
And you can do that by identifying any one of these 4 types of supply and demand zones. So as you can see, there is reversal and continuation zones. Let's go from left to right.

(0:30 - 0:49)
So the first reversal supply demand zone is your rally base drop. It's basically when price goes up, consolidate and reverse and head back down. And then for a continuation supply zone, that means price will be going down, starts consolidating and then eventually it breaks out of the consolidation and continue going down in the downtrend.

(0:50 - 1:01)
And then for your demand zones, this is what a reversal will look like. Your drop base rally. So it's basically when price drops, starts consolidating and starts reversing and heading back up.

(1:01 - 1:17)
And then for your continuation, it's basically your rally base rally. It's basically when price goes up, consolidate and then continue going up even further. Now, these are the 4 supply and demand zones, namely your rally base drop, drop base drop, drop base rally and rally base rally.

(1:18 - 1:43)
Now, if you want to learn more about supply and demand, check out this video next. So in this strategy, we will combine both price action and supply and demand because these two concepts have been proven to have the highest win rate and they are also my favorite trading strategies. Now, the first strategy is the momentum candlestick strategy.

(1:43 - 1:59)
So as you can see, like I said, the first thing you want to do is to mark up your supply and demand zones. And we can see right here, price is approaching a supply zone that we have drawn earlier. So at supply zone, we know that there will be sellers waiting to shut the price down.

(2:00 - 2:21)
So what we want to do is to wait for some sort of bearish price action, some sort of signs that tell us that the sellers are entering the market and the bullish buyers are going away. So what I want you to look out for is this long wick doji candlestick. So in a supply zone, you want to look out for a candlestick with a long upper wick.

(2:21 - 2:57)
And then in a demand zone, you want to look out for a candlestick with a long lower wick. So what does this candlestick mean? This means that at some point of time, the buyers try to push the price all the way up to this level right here before the sellers come in and say, hell no and push the price all the way back down here so that candlestick actually ended up closing somewhere right around here. This signifies that the sellers are entering the market right now or if not, they have already entered the market and that is exactly why price is getting rejected at this key supply zone right here.

(2:57 - 3:20)
Right now, the selling momentum is about to come in and overtake the whole buyer's momentum. Now, this is the first sign of sellers entering the market, the first sign of selling pressure and selling momentum. So if you want to play it safe, what you can even do is to evaluate the next few candlesticks that's going to form because you might not be confident enough to enter immediately on this trade.

(3:20 - 3:30)
It's okay, you want to play it the safe way, play it the low risk way. So what I'll recommend you to do is to actually evaluate the next few candlesticks. So these next few candlesticks have just been formed.

(3:31 - 3:51)
Let's just look at what it's trying to tell us, right? It's all about understanding candlesticks, understanding candlesticks momentum and pressure. Over here, we see a doji candlestick that's being formed after this long upper wick candle is formed. This tells us that there is a lot of indecision, right? Right now, the sellers and the buyers, they are fighting a war right now.

(3:51 - 4:01)
They are fighting a tug of war and they have no idea which one will win. Which brings me to the next candlestick. Next candlestick gave us another red candlestick and another red candlestick.

(4:01 - 4:16)
This just clear as day tells us that the sellers have managed to enter the market. So over here, that is when you can potentially enter for a sell position. Basically, you want to enter for the trade when you see some sort of bearish price action at a supply zone.

(4:17 - 4:30)
So entering here will be the safe way. But if you want to get a sniper entry, what you could have done earlier is to enter where price has formed this long upper wick candle. And then this is when you can place your stock loss above this key supply zone.

(4:31 - 4:45)
And I'll recommend you to place your take profit at the next opposite zone, which will be some sort of demand zone that is like somewhere right around here. That is where I personally place my take profit. So once again, make sure that you have at least a 1 is to 3 risk to reward ratio.

(4:45 - 4:56)
This means that you can be wrong three times and just win one trade and you will be able to break even. So let's look at how this trade play out. You can see price eventually goes down and smash our take profit.

(4:57 - 5:13)
Now let's look at an example in an uptrend. So over here, what is this demand zone? This is your rally base and potentially, it could be making a rally somewhere right around here. So what we can do is to mark up our demand zone somewhere right around here.

(5:13 - 5:24)
And you can see price has managed to come back down to this demand zone. And like I said, what we want to do is to wait for some sort of bullish price action at this demand zone. And that is when we can enter the trade.

(5:25 - 5:41)
So even though price has managed to come back down to this demand zone, I'm not going to be entering yet. I want to wait for some sort of candlestick confirmation, which brings me to this candlestick right here. Now this is your long lower week candle, right? This is what we call a pin buy if I'm not wrong.

(5:42 - 5:52)
So what this candlestick means is that the sellers try to push the price all the way down here. They tried, right? They tried to break past this demand zone, but that's all they did. They tried.

(5:52 - 6:01)
They did not manage to succeed because the buyers have came into the market and pushed the price all the way up. The bulls are winning. Clap for the bulls.

(6:02 - 6:08)
ChicagoPulls96, Mike Jordan. But back to trading. Basically, right now, buyers have entered the market.

(6:08 - 6:20)
That is the first sign of buying momentum and buying pressure. So what you can do is to enter for a buy right here. And like I said, if you want to play it safe, by all means, go ahead.

(6:20 - 6:26)
Wait for the next few candles. You can see the next candle. It gives us this huge candle.

(6:26 - 6:38)
Not really huge actually. A medium-sized green bullish candlestick with a nice, nice body. Not as nice as mine, but basically, this is when you can enter for a buy if you want to play it the safe way.

(6:39 - 6:54)
For me, I personally have entered immediately after price gave me this long low-weight candle at this demand zone. And then that is when you can place a stop loss below this demand zone and place a take profit at the next key supply zone, which could be right here. This little demand zone, supply zone right here.

(6:55 - 7:03)
Let me just change the color because I have OCD. So there you have it, guys. So you can see price went up, go up, hit our take profit, and we call it a day.

(7:04 - 7:18)
I go home, go to the bank, take some money out, treat my family to some nice dinner. Now, don't worry if you still don't get it yet. If you have been watching my videos, you will know that I will always give you guys more examples and explain it in a clearer and more simple way so that you can gain a better understanding.

(7:19 - 7:36)
So over here, you can see we have a demand zone right here and price has just did its drop. So right now, we know that this is a demand zone. So we are waiting for your drop base ready, right? So that is when we can continue to wait, wait out for some sort of bullish price action.

(7:36 - 7:49)
You can see that is exactly what we had, right? Our beautiful long-legged candlestick right here. Long legs. So over here, when price gave us this long low candle, we know that the buyers have entered the market.

(7:49 - 8:03)
So we can enter for a buy right here, place a stop loss below this demand zone and place a take profit at the next key level, the next key supply zone even. One to two, let's get it. You can see price eventually goes up, smash or take profit as simple as that.

(8:03 - 8:19)
So the example was more risky because we entered immediately when price gave us the long weak candle. But let's try the more played safe, the more less risky way, the less the more pushy way. So right here, price is making your rally base drop at this supply zone.

(8:20 - 8:33)
So this is our first step, right? We identify your supply zone somewhere right around here. See supply zone right here. So what we can do next is to wait for price to get this supply zone and show us some sort of bearish price action.

(8:33 - 8:58)
And then that is when you can enter for the trade. So you still wait and wait and you can see right here, price managed to go up and it actually got rejected by the supply zone. How do we know you got rejected? Because that is your long upper weak, right? Like I said, they tried, the bulls tried to overtake the bears but the bears are just way too strong, right? Now, since we are doing the played safe way, I won't necessarily enter for the trade right here after price gave me this long weak candle.

(8:58 - 9:22)
Let's evaluate the next few candlesticks. So you can see this is another doji, like some sort of doji candlestick and then followed by another weak candlestick and you can see there is one, two, two red candlesticks so far, right? Some sort of seller's momentum is coming in. There's a momentum shift somewhere right around here and boom, there we have it guys.

(9:23 - 10:05)
Immediately after this few candlesticks have been formed, right? And after the long candlestick has been formed, the bears have came in and overtake the whole market and just push the price all the way down but make no mistake because if you look at this candlestick, there is actually a long upper weak. So what happened here? Basically, price got pushed all the way up because the bulls wanted to make a second attempt at breaking past this key level and then once again, the bears decided to come in, the sellers come in and say hell no once again and push the price all the way down and it ended up closing right here. Now ladies and gentlemen, if you still don't know that this is a sell trade, I don't know what to say to you.

(10:05 - 10:28)
You must be an absolutely idiot. So as you can see, if you enter for a sell right here and you place your take profit like at this demand zone that we have right here, this green little demand zone, right? It could be a little bit too late. It could be a little bit too late because now if you enter for a trade right here, your stop loss must be all the way up here and your take profit will only be like right here.

(10:28 - 10:47)
So it's like not really worth it, right? It's not really worth it to enter for this trade. That is why if you want to enter for this trade, you have entered somewhere right around here. Somewhere right around here when these next few candlesticks have gave you the confirmation that sellers have been entering into the market or like I said, sniper entry will be right here.

(10:47 - 11:05)
Now you don't necessarily need to find long weak candlesticks because they can be quite hard to spot. Sometimes. So the first step will always be the same and that is to identify your supply and demand zones.

(11:05 - 11:27)
So right here, we can see that there is a supply zone right here because there is obviously there's a lot of sellers at this area here, right? Now this could be your rally base drop. So over here, we can see that price is consolidating at this area here and you can see that there is a lot of candlestick wicks. You can see all these are candlestick wicks.

(11:27 - 11:40)
All these are a lot of candlestick wicks. So what does this tell us? When you see multiple wicks, this tell us that there is a lot, a lot of uncertainty. There is a lot of indecision.

(11:40 - 12:06)
And when you notice all these candlesticks right here, they all have a long upper wick candle and they have a small candlestick body. And just now I've already explained to you what this long upper wick candlesticks mean, right? So obviously this tell us that there's a lot of selling pressure, a lot of selling momentum and price could potentially collapse right now. When you're looking for multiple wick rejections, make sure that you look for at least three multiple wicks.

(12:06 - 12:11)
At least three candlestick wicks. One, two, three. Three wicks, good to go.

(12:11 - 12:29)
But basically the reason why that it was even multiple wicks is because price has tried to challenge this key supply zone multiple times, right? The buyers tried. The buyers tried to push the price up but they failed one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Eight times, right? Eight times they failed miserably.

(12:29 - 12:46)
And since they failed so many times, you will know that this is a very strong supply zone, right? The sellers are waiting to literally shoot the whole shit and get it all the way to the floor. I don't even have any idea what I'm talking about here. But basically when you see multiple wick rejections at a supply zone, enter for a sell.

(12:46 - 13:04)
So this is where I'll potentially enter for a sell, place a stop loss above this multiple wicks here or you can even place it above this key supply zone. And then same thing, take profit at the next key zone, right? The next key demand zone or basically the next key level. And you can see price immediately just collapse all the way down.

(13:04 - 13:22)
Here's another example. Right here we can draw a key demand zone because there was a drop base rally. And right now we could be expecting to see price do the same thing because price has just been dropping and dropping and you can start to see like the momentum starts fading away, right? The candlesticks are getting smaller and wicks are starting to form.

(13:22 - 13:35)
So we could be expecting price to come down to this area here. The sellers will start to show some sort of weakness and then that is when we can potentially enter for a buy. So right here we are waiting to see what price does at this key demand zone.

(13:36 - 13:52)
And you can see, okay, doji candlestick, another wick candlestick and another candlestick wick. Guys, like I said, it must look for at least three candlestick wicks, right? This signifies there is multiple wick rejections at this key demand zone. So very, very strong demand zone.

(13:52 - 14:12)
And that is when we can potentially enter for a buy right here, when price has shown us multiple wick rejections at this key demand zone. Place a stop loss below this demand zone, take profit all the way up at the next key supply zone, somewhere right around here. Now, obviously if you place a take profit all the way up here, it's gonna take quite long to reach there.

(14:12 - 14:27)
It could be taking up to an hour or so. So what I can even do is to place at this key level right here, this key level here, that price has broken past this support level and now it could potentially be a resistance level. So that is when you can place your take profit right here.

(14:27 - 14:39)
And then look at what happened next. You can see price starts to go up, go up and go somewhere now around our take profit area right here and it starts to consolidate, right? Starts to consolidate. Once again, observe the price action.

(14:39 - 15:00)
What does this tell us? This tell us that this buying momentum could be fading away, right? Because price doesn't have the strength to reach this area here. So what I can even do is to manually take profit somewhere right around this area here because now you can start to see like, oh, the candlesticks are getting smaller and smaller. There's not much momentum left, right? So manually go close the trade.

(15:05 - 15:12)
Now for this strategy, we will be using the eight exponential moving average. These are the settings. You can copy them if you want.

(15:12 - 15:31)
Now, same thing. First step is to identify your supply and demand zone and I can identify a demand zone being formed right here because price has just did its drop base and it could potentially be doing a rally soon. So right now, what we want to do is to wait for the moving average to cross over the candlesticks and then that is when we can potentially enter for a buy.

(15:32 - 15:43)
So right now we are still waiting and you can see somewhere right around here, the candlesticks has crossed over the moving average. What does it mean? This means that a reversal is prone to happen. A reversal is about to happen.

(15:43 - 16:00)
You can see before that, the candlesticks are all below the white line, which is the moving average. And now the candlesticks have crossed over the white line and they are now above the moving average. So easily enter for a buy somewhere right around here where there was a moving average crossover, stop loss below this key demand zone.

(16:01 - 16:12)
And if I take profit, I like to place it at the next supply zone. Like I said, there's a supply zone right here, right? E clear as day. This is the supply zone because there was a rally base drop.

(16:12 - 16:18)
Yeah, very strong demand zone right here. So that is when we can place our take profit all the way up here. And let's not waste my time.

(16:18 - 16:30)
So just go up there and smash our take profit. Obviously, this is actually a little bit longer. Yeah, this is actually a little bit longer for your take profit to hit because understand that it's gonna take you a few hours for this trade to play out.

(16:31 - 16:46)
So instead of placing your take profit here, what you could have done is that you can place your take profit somewhere right around here where there was another little supply zone right here. Yeah, so this will be a much more faster trade. But for me, when I'm scalping, I'm more of a mix between a scalper and an intraday trader.

(16:46 - 17:01)
So I'm perfectly fine with moving my take profit up here and having like a 40, 30 to 40 pips take profit. And you can see price eventually went up there, break past the supply zone. So after you have taken profit from this trade, guess what? You should be looking for the next opportunity.

(17:02 - 17:16)
So over here, what we can see is that price is forming your supply zone right here, right? There is a supply zone being formed right here. You can see super long upper wick right here. And then there is multiple rejections at this key zone that we have right here.

(17:16 - 17:27)
So what we can do is that knowing that this is a supply zone, we have to wait for the moving average to cross over. And that is exactly what price gave us. Previously, the candlesticks are above the moving average.

(17:28 - 17:40)
And then over here, that is when the candlesticks start to cross below the moving average. Now that's the first confluence. The second confluence is that if you observe closely, there is your multiple wick rejections right here.

(17:41 - 17:50)
So multiple wick rejections. And then there is also your long upper wick right here. Now we have all the confluences in the world for us to enter for a sell right here.

(17:51 - 18:14)
Moving average cross over, long upper wick candle, multiple wick rejections, clear as day that price is about to collapse. So that is when you can enter for the trade right here based on stop loss above this supply zone, take profit all the way down at this next demand zone that I have right here. Now, like I said, understand that this will be more of an intraday trade already if you do decide to trade this way.

(18:15 - 18:29)
But if you are more of a scalper, feel free to take profit like somewhere right around here, right at the next key zone. And as you can see, price goes down, smash your take profit and you can call it a day. But for me, I'll most likely like to have the take profit all the way down here.

(18:30 - 18:55)
And you can see price eventually went down and smashed out my take profit. Now this is more of like a sniper entry type shit, right? This is really how I really get like my low risk, high reward ratios where people are always asking me, oh my God, why are you entering on like such small time frame when you are intraday trading or when you are swing trading? It's because you can get nice sniper entries like this with very, very high precision. Now over here, price has came down to our demand zone.

(18:55 - 19:11)
What do we do next? We look for the next opportunity once we get out of this one, right? So right now, once again, I'm waiting for some sort of moving average crossover, right? Some sort of moving average crossover like this, right? Clear as day. Moving average crossover right here. You can enter for a buy right here.

(19:11 - 19:24)
Stop loss below this key demand zone. And once again, guys, look for other confluences as well. You can see there is a multiple weak candlestick rejections right here at a demand zone and also a moving average crossover.

(19:24 - 19:30)
Easily three confluence. Easily enter for a buy right here. Take profit at this next supply zone that we have right here.

(19:31 - 19:51)
See price hit our take profit right here and I can see potentially go up up to the next key supply zone that we have right here, right? What you could have even done for this trade is that you can take partial profits. So when price reach this first supply zone, close half the trade. And then when price reach this second supply zone, close the other half of that trade.

(19:51 - 20:07)
Now for me, I don't personally like to take partial profits anymore. What I like to do instead is to scale in because when I'm winning, I want to get that position bigger and make more money. So what I could have done in this trade is that when price form another demand zone somewhere right around here.

(20:08 - 20:17)
Somewhere right around here, there was another demand zone, right? So this is when I will be looking to enter for the trade. Enter my second trade. Scale into this position.

(20:18 - 20:44)
Remember, my first position could be somewhere right around here, right? Remember, my first position is where I entered somewhere right around here where the moving average has crossed over. And let's say my overall take profit is all the way up at this second supply zone. Now over here, when price has formed a new demand zone, where price is really base and it's about to rally to continue this uptrend, I'll potentially be looking for another long trade, right? So that is when I will enter for another buy somewhere right around here.

(20:44 - 21:10)
When the moving average has crossed over and this candlestick has also shown me that it has a very long, not really long, but like an average low week which show us that this demand zone is gonna hold and I can place my second take profit like somewhere right around here. So easily, place a stop loss below this new demand zone. And what you can even do is to move your stop loss for this first trade into like somewhere right around here, somewhere right around here.

(21:10 - 21:21)
So basically you can move your stop loss somewhere to right around here. Now both your trades, right? The stop loss will be somewhere right around this area here. When you do that, you are literally limiting your risk.

(21:21 - 21:38)
Now, even if you lose this trade, even if you get stopped out, guess what? You are walking away risk-free. You have not lost a single bit of money because you have managed to think clearly. So now I have two trades running to my overall take profit and I make not just one profit but double the profit now.

(21:39 - 22:11)
I really thought about whether to share this scalping strategy with you guys or not because these three scalping strategies have been so valuable to me throughout my past few years of trading and I've never really shared this with anyone but I really wanted to just share this video with you guys. So I'm not gonna ask you to hit on the like button because I know that you will definitely hit on the like button because this video has been so valuable and just look at the quality of our videos. It has been increasing and I'm spending more and more money investing in better equipments, better editing.

(22:11 - 22:41)
So automatically, hit that like button, hit that subscribe button, make more money for the channel so that more money can be going back into improving the quality of our videos and when the quality of our videos increase, guess what? You get more educational, more valuable and more higher quality 4k videos just like this. Now in order for this scalping strategy to work, you need a very deep understanding of supply and demand zone which you can learn in this video right here and remember, you're just one trade away.